Qualification Number: 610/0818/7 
Qualification Specification 
Version 2.1 published September 2025 

 
 
 
 
 
Updates to this specification 

Since first publication of the Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping, the following areas of the 
qualification specification have been updated. 

Version 

Date first published 

What has been updated 

Version 2.1 

23 September 2025 

Descriptions and links updated 

Version 2.0 

8 March 2024 

Section 9: Units (1.2.1) 

Version 1.1 

4 August 2022 

Final version published  
Section 9: Units (3.2.3 and 3.3.2) 

Version 1.0 

1 May 2022 

First publication 

This qualification is approved and regulated by: 

• 

the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation (Ofqual) in England and 
internationally 
the Council for the Curriculum, Examinations and Assessment (CCEA) in Northern Ireland 

• 
•  Qualifications in Wales (QiW). 

Updates to this specification 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Contents 

Updates to this specification .................................................................................................... 2 

Contents ................................................................................................................................... 3 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

About AAT ...................................................................................................................... 4 

Ethics: we set and raise standards ................................................................................. 5 

Student registration: support every step of the way ........................................................ 6 

Choosing to study the AAT Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping ............................................ 7 

About the AAT Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping ............................................................... 9 

Employer involvement................................................................................................... 10 

Support for this qualification .......................................................................................... 11 

The assessment in detail .............................................................................................. 12 

Units .............................................................................................................................. 15 

Bookkeeping fundamentals .................................................................................................... 17 

10.  Delivering AAT qualifications ........................................................................................ 32 

11.  Equality and diversity .................................................................................................... 34 

12.  Support for training providers ....................................................................................... 36 

Contents 

3 

 
 
 
 
1. About AAT 

AAT is a trusted brand for quality-assured accountancy qualifications across the globe, 
working with students and members, and partnering with AAT-approved training providers. 
We also have licensed members throughout the UK. Our members are represented at 
every level of the finance and accounting world, including students studying for a career in 
finance, people already working in accountancy and self-employed business owners. To 
find out more about us and our impact, please visit aat.org.uk/about/what-we-do 

Alongside the AAT accounting qualifications, AAT also offers short qualifications to meet 
the varied needs of our students. Our short qualifications provide a range of entry points 
through which students with varied experiences can engage with AAT and achieve their 
career goals.  

Level 1 qualifications are an entry point for students who need additional support to 
develop their finance or business skills. These qualifications are designed to give students 
the introductory knowledge and confidence to take on higher level AAT qualifications and to 
progress in their lives and careers. 

Studying an AAT short qualification allows students to focus on specific knowledge and 
skills. Students may wish to move into employment. They may wish to advance in 
specialised subject areas such as bookkeeping in order to become a bookkeeping member 
of AAT and achieve AAT Bookkeeper status (AATQB). Alternatively, students may wish to 
complete the AAT accounting qualifications to professional level, giving them the 
opportunity to become full members of AAT and achieve MAAT, and internationally 
recognised professional status in accounting and finance.  

                                                                        Find out more about AAT 

1. About AAT 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Ethics: we set and raise standards 

AAT is about more than qualifications. AAT is recognised and respected as a professional 
membership body by a wide range of businesses. We require our members to take a 
professional and ethical approach throughout their accountancy and finance careers. 

It is because of our exceptionally high standards and the professionalism of our members 
that AAT members are so highly regarded. This is a benefit to us as a professional body 
and to our members. 

We publish the AAT Code of Professional Ethics, which sets out a code of fundamental 
ethical principles and supporting guidance, and is based on the IFAC Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants. The decisions that an accounting technician makes during the 
course of their professional life can have real ethical implications, and this is where the 
Code can help. It: 

•  sets out the required standards of professional behaviour with guidance to help our 

members achieve them 

•  helps our members to protect the public interest 
•  helps our members to maintain AAT’s good reputation and public confidence. 

To reflect the realities of the workplace, we have embedded ethical dilemmas and decision 
making throughout the content of AAT’s qualifications and assessments. This will help to 
set our students on the right path as they embark on careers as accountancy or finance 
professionals. 

2. Ethics: we set and raise standards 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Student registration: support every step of the way 

Registering with AAT is essential if students wish to study an AAT qualification. Once 
students have registered and purchased access to their desired qualification, they can:  

•  sit AAT assessments 
•  access AAT support resources to supplement the qualification learning and aid 

career progression.  

AAT registration is a one-off fee, giving students access to the purchased qualification for 
the lifespan of the qualification. Additional fees will apply for sitting AAT assessments.  

We support and develop our students through AAT Approved training providers across the 
world. We also have an extensive branch network where students can access support and 
training and meet other AAT students and professional members in their local area. 

Prospective students wishing to register for the Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping can do so at 
aat.org.uk/registration/register-with-aat 

Students are advised to register with an AAT Approved training provider before registering 
with AAT. On registration, an email confirming their registration and an AAT registration 
number will be sent.  

Find out more about the benefits of 
registering with AAT 

3. Student registration: support every step of the way 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 1 Award in 

Bookkeeping   

4.1  Who should choose to study this qualification? 

The Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping offers students the opportunity to develop practical 
bookkeeping skills. This qualification may help students to move on to further study in either 
accountancy or bookkeeping with AAT, offer a route into employment or be of interest to those 
already in employment. 

This qualification will particularly suit those students who have had minimal work experience 
or those who need some additional support to progress. This may include younger students 
seeking tangible and finance-specific skills, adults seeking to validate their existing skills to 
enter into or progress in their career, or students who would like to test their abilities before 
progressing further with AAT. This qualification may also interest those who are self-employed 
or working in small businesses who wish to do their own bookkeeping.  

4.2  Why choose this qualification? 

At Level 1, AAT offers the Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping and the Level 1 Award in Business 
Skills. These short qualifications are flexible, adaptable to different student needs and 
requirements and valued by employers in a range of industries. 

Students should choose to study the Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping if they wish to develop an 
understanding of the basics of manual bookkeeping. Students completing this qualification 
may wish to pursue careers in finance or business in either the private or public sectors. This 
qualification may be combined with the Level 1 Award in Business Skills to lay a strong 
foundation for further study with AAT in either accountancy or bookkeeping. 

This qualification will usually take around 12 weeks to complete, but this will depend on the 
study method and course timetable. 

4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  What does the qualification cover? 

This qualification covers a range of skills and the relevant supporting knowledge in one 
mandatory unit - Bookkeeping Fundamentals. The qualification is assessed in one end-of-
qualification assessment. 

Students completing this qualification will develop an understanding of the role of the 
bookkeeper, including the need to produce timely and accurate work and to follow ethical 
principles. Students will learn underpinning theory including how to identify assets, liabilities, 
income, expenses, capital profit or loss, and the differences between trading for cash and 
trading on credit. Students will also develop the skills to process customer and supplier 
transactions, to enter receipts and payments into the cash book and check amounts against 
the bank statement in preparation for bank reconciliation. Students will be introduced to the 
dual effect of transactions. This is a fundamental underpinning concept for double-entry 
bookkeeping and will support students who go on to study bookkeeping at Level 2. 

Students will also learn the role that software can have in bookkeeping and the benefits and 
risks that different types of software may bring. They will explore the differences between 
cloud accounting software and traditional accounting software and learn about the importance 
of software security and the steps that can be taken to keep data secure.  

4.4  What will this qualification lead to? 

The skills developed by studying this qualification will give students a solid base from which to 
seek employment with greater confidence or enable them to progress to the next level of 
learning. 

The skills developed in this qualification can lead to employment in junior or supporting 
administrative roles in companies across a wide range of sectors, for example, as a: 

trainee bookkeeper 
• 
•  accounts administrator 
•  billing/payments administrator/coordinator 
•  accounts junior 
•  accounts receivable/payable assistant 
•  procurement and finance assistant 
•  assistant cashier. 

The skills developed in this qualification may also underpin those developed further in the 
following Level 2 qualifications:  

•  Level 2 Certificate in Bookkeeping 
•  Level 2 Certificate in Accounting  

This qualification is not part of an apprenticeship. 

4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. About the AAT Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping 

Qualification name 

AAT Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping 

Qualification number 

610/0818/7 

Level 

Guided learning hours (GLH) 

Total qualification time (TQT) 

1 

75 

110 

5.1  Guided learning hours (GLH) value 

The total GLH value for the Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping is 75 hours. 

The GLH value for a qualification is an estimate of the amount of time a student spends 
learning under the supervision of a teacher or tutor. This might include lectures, tutorials or 
supervised study carried out either face-to-face or remotely. Time spent by tutors, teachers or 
external experts assessing student performance is also included. It doesn’t include time that 
students spend on unsupervised preparation or study. 

The GLH value is set and recommended as appropriate by AAT, but some students may need 
more or less support to achieve the qualification. The GLH value is not a compulsory measure 
for all students. Training providers have the flexibility to offer the qualification in the hours 
required by their own students, within the constraints of any funded provision requirements. 

5.2  Total qualification time (TQT) value 

The TQT value for the Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping is 110 hours. 

The TQT value is also a measure of how long it takes to complete a qualification, but it 
includes both GLH and unsupervised learning. 

Any independent study time or any additional work by the student that is directed by, but not 
under the supervision of, a tutor is included in the TQT value. This might include working 
through e-learning at home or time spent on independent research. 

5.3  Are there any prerequisites for this qualification?  

AAT does not set any entry requirements for this qualification. 

However, for the best chance of success, we recommend that students begin their studies 
with a good standard of English and maths. Accountants work at the very heart of a business 
and are expected to be able to communicate information clearly and appropriately to a given 
audience.  

5.4  Exemptions and Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) 

As this qualification has only one end-of-qualification assessment, AAT will not recognise any 
exemption or RPL requests.   

5. About the AAT Level 1 Award in Bookkeeping 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Employer involvement 

AAT qualifications are recognised and valued by employers as vocational and technical 
qualifications that prepare students for the world of work and for working specifically in 
accountancy and finance roles. 

6.1  Employer involvement in development and assessment 

AAT has worked closely with employers in the development of this qualification to ensure 
that the qualification demands the skills that an employer would expect of a student at this 
level. 

Employers also contribute to the development of the live materials used to assess students 
on completion of their study. Employer involvement in assessment of this qualification 
includes reviewing and editing the assessments and scenarios used to ensure that they 
reflect realistic working practices and the wider environment. 

6.2  Working with employers to deliver the qualification 

AAT qualifications are practical and technical qualifications, which have been developed 
with the involvement and support of employers. Teaching and learning should reflect this 
practical focus, and students must be encouraged to relate their learning to current issues 
and activities in the workplace. Students will benefit from contact with employers during 
their course of study. Employer involvement enhances students’ experiences by allowing 
them to apply their knowledge to real workplace situations and builds bridges between the 
worlds of study and work. 

This may include: 

•  students participating in work experience that enables them to develop their skills 

and knowledge 

•  students working on projects, exercises or assessments set or supervised by 

employers 

•  employers delivering areas of qualification content via guest lectures 
•  students visiting employers or employers providing premises, facilities or equipment 
•  students attending talks by employers on employability, general careers advice, CV 

writing and interview training 

•  students attending careers fairs, events or other networking opportunities 
•  students learning in simulated or centre-based working environments  
•  employers providing job references for students. 

6. Employer involvement 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Support for this qualification 

7.1  AAT qualification support 

Throughout the life of this qualification, AAT will make available a range of free materials 
and resources to support tutors and students in delivery and assessment. 

Materials produced for this qualification include: 

•  practice assessments for each assessment 
•  Annual Chief Examiner reports.  

Additional materials may also include:  

•  e-learning 
•  Green Light tests 
•  webinars 
• 

tutor-to-tutor sessions at network meetings. 

All AAT study support resources can be accessed via the AAT Lifelong Learning Portal. 

7.2  Published materials 

A number of commercial publishers produce support materials for AAT qualifications. While 
AAT ensures that commercial publishers have the information they need to produce 
materials in good time to support the qualifications, AAT does not formally endorse any 
specific publisher and it does not review publishers’ materials for accuracy. 

Tutors are reminded to always refer to the unit content within this specification for what to 
teach and what will be assessed and to refer to a range of support materials where 
possible. While published materials can offer excellent support and variety in teaching and 
learning, they should not be used without reference to this specification. 

7. Support for this qualification 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. The assessment in detail 

8.1  How will students be assessed? 

Students must successfully achieve one mandatory unit assessment to achieve this 
qualification. The proportion of this qualification assessed by externally marked assessment 
is 100%. 

The assessment in this qualification: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

is set and marked by AAT  
is computer-based  
is time-limited 
is scheduled by training providers or assessment venues 
takes place at approved training providers and assessment venues under controlled 
conditions. 

This qualification is not graded. To pass the qualification, students must pass one 
mandatory assessment. 

8.2  Availability of assessments 

Unit assessments are available to be scheduled on demand throughout the year, except 
during periods set and communicated by AAT. 

8.3  Controlled conditions 

AAT has published detailed regulations for training providers and assessment venues 
regarding how to conduct computer-based assessments. 

Training providers and assessment venues must ensure that they comply with the minimum 
and supporting requirements for the hardware and software used in the delivery of AAT 
assessments and must ensure that all assessments are delivered securely. 

Each training provider and assessment venue must have at least one computer-based 
assessment (CBA) administrator and at least one invigilator. Training providers and 
assessment venues must ensure that all assessments are invigilated and conducted in 
accordance with AAT policies and procedures. To avoid any possible conflict of interest, the 
CBA administrator(s) and invigilator(s) for an assessment must not be an active AAT 
student or related to any student taking that assessment and must not be or have been a 
tutor involved in preparing students for any of the units that are being assessed.  

AAT requirements and regulations for how to conduct assessments within this qualification 
are detailed in Instructions for conducting AAT computer-based assessments (CBAs) 
(PDF) guidance document. This is hosted on a dedicated assessment support webpage for 
Qualifications 2022.  

8. The assessment in detail 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.4  Sitting the assessment 

The assessments in this qualification are computer-based, with a time restriction. Details on 
assessment duration for each unit has been included in Section 9: Units. 

Students will be presented with a range of question types and formats in the assessment. 
These may include multiple-choice questions, numeric gap-fill questions, or question tools 
that replicate workplace activities such as making entries in a journal. While tasks generally 
do not have to be completed in a specific order, students are encouraged to proceed 
through them in the order in which they are presented. 

Students should familiarise themselves with the CBA environment, assessment platform 
software and some of the question styles that they might encounter in the exam by using 
the practice assessment materials provided by AAT. Registered students may access the 
Lifelong Learning Portal and practice assessment materials through MyAAT. 

8.5  Marking 

The assessment in this qualification is wholly computer marked. Computer marking is 
completed within the assessment software in accordance with an objective marking scheme 
devised during assessment development.  

8.6  Results 

Results for computer marked assessments are made available via MyAAT within 24 hours 
of submitting the assessment. Students will be advised on what percentage of the marks 
available they achieved in their assessments. 

AAT’s feedback service provides a simple summary of students’ performance in each 
assessment. The feedback statement confirms their overall result and a breakdown of 
performance by task. Students will also be able to see marks available and marks achieved 
against each task position.  

Feedback statements are automatically generated and are designed to help students 
identify their strengths and any topic areas requiring further study. The student is presented 
with a short descriptor for each task to describe their performance in that task against the 
topics assessed. There are four feedback descriptors. Each descriptor provides an 
indication of how the student has performed in that task and includes generic advice on 
how to proceed with their studies or continuing professional development (CPD).   

8.7  Re-sits 

Students should only be entered for an assessment when they are well prepared and they 
are expected to pass the assessment. Where a student is unsuccessful in an assessment 
attempt, they should discuss their results with their tutor and revise appropriately before 
retaking the assessment. 

This qualification is not subject to re-sit restrictions. 

8. The assessment in detail 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.8  Enquiries and appeals 

If the student thinks that their assessment outcome does not reflect their performance, they 
can submit an enquiry. Full details of the process can be found on AAT’s dedicated 
enquiries and appeals webpage. AAT’s results enquiry service includes a check of all 
procedures leading to the issue of the outcome, checking that all parts of the assessment 
were marked, that the marks were totalled correctly and that the marks were recorded 
correctly. Students may also request to have the original marking reviewed, to check that 
the agreed mark scheme was applied correctly. 

The appeals process can be followed if a student is not satisfied with the outcome of their 
enquiry or Malpractice Review Panel (MRP) decision. The appeals process checks all 
aspects of the original enquiry review or MRP hearing and checks that all AAT procedures 
have been correctly followed. 

Enquiries and appeals can be made by a student or by their training provider or employer 
on their behalf; enquiries and appeals for a group of students can also be made by a 
training provider.  

There is an administrative fee for enquiries and appeals. All paid fees will be refunded if the 
outcome of the enquiry or appeal is in favour of the student.

8. The assessment in detail 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  Units 

All units in this qualification comply with the requirements set out in the Conditions of 
Recognition published by the regulators in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and follow 
a standard format. The unit specification gives guidance on the requirements of the unit for 
students, tutors, assessors and those responsible for monitoring national standards. Each 
unit contains a range of sections, as outlined below.  

Unit title 
This qualification, and its component units, is regulated. The unit title shown is the 
regulated title of the unit.  

Unit level 
All units and qualifications are assigned a level using the level descriptors that apply to 
regulated qualifications in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. There are nine levels of 
achievement, from Entry Level to Level 8.  

GLH value 
The GLH value is defined as all the times when a tutor, trainer or facilitator is present to 
give specific guidance. This definition includes lectures, tutorials and supervised study. It 
also includes time spent by staff assessing student achievements. It does not include time 
spent by staff marking assignments or homework where the student is not present. 

Assessment methodology  
All units will be independently assessed.  

Unit reference number 
This number is set by Ofqual, the independent qualifications regulator for England, and is 
unique to the unit. 

Introduction 
The unit introduction gives the reader an appreciation of the unit in the context of the 
vocational setting of the qualification, as well as highlighting the focus of the unit. It gives 
the reader a snapshot of the unit and the key knowledge, skills and understanding gained 
while studying the unit.  

Learning outcomes 
The learning outcomes of a unit set out what a student is expected to know or be able to 
do as a result of their learning. 

Scope of content 
The scope of content identifies the breadth of knowledge, skills and understanding needed 
to achieve each of the learning outcomes. The content provides the range of subject 
material for the programme of learning and specifies the skills, knowledge and 
understanding required for achievement of the unit. 

9. Units 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Content structure 

•  Each learning outcome is stated in full. 
•  Topic areas specify the standard that a student is expected to meet in order to 

demonstrate that the learning outcome has been achieved. These may be shown 
as ‘Learners need to understand’ for an understanding topic area or ‘Learners need 
to be able to’ for a skills topic area. Some learning outcomes may include both 
understanding and skills elements. 

•  Each topic area is then expanded into key concepts related to that learning 

outcome. 

•  Each concept is then further expanded into indicative content where applicable. 

Relationship between content and assessment 
Students must have the opportunity to cover all the unit content. It is not a requirement of 
the unit specification that all the content is assessed. However, the indicative content will 
need to be covered in a programme of learning for students to be able to meet the 
standard determined in the scope of content. 

Delivering this unit 
This section includes guidance on how the unit content can be delivered. Tutors are 
encouraged to develop their own approach depending on the needs of their students but 
may wish to incorporate some of the ideas included. Tutors may wish to go beyond the 
scope of the content to aid understanding and provide context but must always ensure first 
that all required content is covered according to the depth and breadth indicated in the 
scope of content. 

Test specification for unit assessment 
The test specification for the unit assessment gives details about the assessment method, 
marking type and duration of the assessment. The contribution that each learning outcome 
makes to the overall mark for the unit assessment is also provided. 

9. Units 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
Bookkeeping fundamentals 

Unit 
level 
1 

GLH value 

75 

Unit reference 
number 
F/650/2401 

Assessment 

Unit assessment 

Introduction 

This unit will provide students with the understanding of why keeping financial information 
accurate and up to date is important in the workplace. They will understand the key roles that a 
bookkeeper per including data entry, checking bank statements, accounts receivable and 
accounts payable. They will understand how the data they prepare, and reports they produce 
may be used by management and business owners in making business decisions and the 
importance of timely and accurate communication. Students will learn the importance of 
ethical behaviour including confidentiality and the importance of data protection.  

Students will learn underpinning theory including how to identify assets, liabilities, income, 
expenses, capital and profit or loss. They will learn the differences between trading for cash and 
trading on credit. Students will also develop the skills to process customer and supplier 
transactions, to enter receipts and payments into the cash book and check amounts against the 
bank statement in preparation for bank reconciliation. Students will be introduced to the dual 
effect of transactions. This is a fundamental underpinning concept for double-entry bookkeeping 
and will support students who go on to study bookkeeping at Level 2.  

Students will learn the role that software can have in bookkeeping and the benefits and risks that 
different types of software may bring. They will explore the differences between cloud 
accounting software and traditional accounting software and learn about the importance of 
software security and the steps that can be taken to keep data secure. 

Learning outcomes 

1.  Understand the role of the bookkeeper.  
2.  Understand financial transactions. 
3.  Process customer and supplier transactions. 
4.  Process receipts and payments. 
5.  Understand the benefits and risks of using accounting software to complete 

bookkeeping tasks 

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Scope of content 

This section illustrates the depth and breadth of content to be delivered for this unit. All areas 
indicated in the table below must be covered in teaching.  

Learners may not be assessed on all content, or on the full depth or breadth of a piece of 
content. Content assessed may change over time to ensure validity of assessment.  

1. Understand the role of the bookkeeper 

1.1 

Duties and responsibilities of a bookkeeper 
Learners need to know: 

1.1.1 

the duties and responsibilities of a bookkeeper: 

-  record and check financial transactions 
-  prepare and check financial documentation  
-  prepare information that is timely and accurate 
-  prepare information that may be used by managers/business owners in 

making decisions 

-  required to follow ethical principles 
-  must refer to a supervisor or seek authorisation where appropriate 
-  have money laundering obligations. 

1.2 

The importance of timely and accurate information 

Learners need to know: 
1.2.1 the potential effect of inaccurate information: 

incorrect chasing of customers  
incorrect payments to suppliers: overpayment, underpayment 

incorrect accounting records: overstatement, understatement 
incorrect profit or loss reported 
incorrect tax payments to authorities 

- 
- 
- 
-  delayed receipts from customers 
- 
- 
-  duplicated payment to suppliers 
-  delayed receipt of goods from suppliers 
loss of customer/supplier goodwill 
- 
incorrect information on external/internal reports: incorrect management/client 
- 
decision making 
time spent tracing and correcting errors 
loss of reputation with managers/clients. 

- 
- 

1.2.2 the potential effects of untimely information: 

-  missed accounting and other compliance deadlines 
-  delayed receipts from customers 
-  delayed payments to suppliers 
-  delayed receipt of goods from suppliers 
- 
-  out of date information in external/internal reports – incorrect 

loss of customer/supplier goodwill 

management/client decision making 
loss of reputation with managers/clients. 

- 

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.3 actions that can be taken to ensure information is timely and accurate: 

take time when processing entries 

identify deadlines 
identify how long is required for each item of work 

- 
- 
-  prioritise work to ensure deadlines can be met 
-  plan work using diaries/calendars/planning software 
- 
-  check understanding of task with supervisor and/or client   
-  do not take on more work than is possible in the time available 
-  discuss workload and priorities with your supervisor 
-  do not take on work beyond your ability 
-  discuss with your supervisor if you are not sure how to process an item 
-  check that totals agree to expectation 
-  use internal checks within software to identify errors 
- 
-  have a second person review when appropriate. 

review own work 

1.3 

Ethical principles  

Learners need to know: 
1.3.1 the five fundamental principles of ethics: 

-  confidentiality 

-  professional behaviour 

-  professional competence and due care 

- 

integrity  

-  objectivity.    

1.3.2 the potential effect of not keeping information confidential: 

-  unauthorised sharing of information 
-  breach of data protection/General Data Protection Regulations 
-  breach of AAT Code of Professional Ethics 
-  breach of employment contract 
- 

loss of business / personal reputation. 

1.3.3 ways to keep information confidential/secure: 

-  use of strong passwords / not sharing passwords 
-  screensavers  
-  encryption 
- 
firewalls 
-  use of secure network: remote / hybrid working  
-  storage of hard-copy records, physical access restrictions 
-  storage of soft-copy records: cloud-storage, archives, secure back-ups, 

restricted access, cybersecurity 

-  authentication required to access cloud-based information 
-  not sharing laptops/computers with others 
-  not leaving confidential information where non-authorised personnel may 

see/not working in a public space  

-  not discussing confidential information where non-authorised personnel may 

hear 

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

19 

 
 
 
-  anti-virus software 
-  cookies and privacy settings  
- 
-  checking correct recipient before sending required information. 

the importance of only sharing information with authorised personnel 

Exclusion: creating passwords. 

1.4 

Money laundering obligations 

Learners need to know: 
1.4.1 key money laundering obligations: 

-  bookkeeping is an accountancy service 
-  bookkeepers must register for anti-money laundering supervision if they 

provide external bookkeeping services 
-  money laundering is a criminal offence 
- 
- 

reports of suspicious activity should be made 
failure to report a suspicion of money laundering is a criminal offence. 

2. Understand financial transactions 

2.1 

The dual effect of transactions 

Learners need to know: 
2.1.1 that items that can be classified as:  

-  assets  
liabilities 
- 
- 
income 
-  expenses   
-  capital 
-  profit / loss. 

2.1.2 that items can be recorded in the bookkeeping system  
2.1.3 that each transaction changes the records of at least two items in the bookkeeping 
system: item amounts may increase and/or decrease. 

Exclusions: making entries in ledger accounts, debits and credits, transactions including 
VAT, transactions including more than two items. 

2.2  The accounting equation 

Learners need to know: 
2.2.1 the accounting equation  
2.2.2 that profits result in increases in capital and losses result in decreases in capital 
2.2.3 that the accounting equation will always balance. 

Exclusions: Calculations of missing entries using the accounting equation. 

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Process customer and supplier transactions 

3.1 

The buying and selling process 

Learners need to know: 
3.1.1 the difference between trading for cash and trading on credit: 

-  cash sales 
-  cash purchases 
-  credit sales 
-  credit purchases 
-  customers 
-  suppliers 
- 
-  payables. 

receivables 

3.1.2 relevant documents and how they are used: 

-  sales and purchase invoices 
-  sales and purchase credit notes 
-  quotation 
-  sales and purchase orders 
-  delivery note 
-  goods received note 
-  goods returned note 
-  cash receipt 
- 

remittance advice. 

3.2 

Preparing sales invoices and credit notes 

Learners need to know: 
3.2.1 the documents used to prepare sales 
invoices and credit notes: 
-  quotation 
-  delivery note 
-  price list 
-  sales order. 

Learners need to be able to: 
3.2.2 complete sales invoice and credit 
note details: 

invoice number 
invoice date 

-  customer name 
-  customer address 
-  customer reference   
- 
- 
-  credit note number 
-  credit note date 
-  product description 
-  product code. 

3.2.3 complete sales invoice and credit 
note amounts: 

-  unit price, number of units and 

price for multiple units 
-  discounts for buying large 

quantities 

-  amounts: net, VAT at standard 

rate, total. 

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Exclusion: calculation of VAT from VAT-
inclusive amounts. 

3.3  Check purchase invoices and credit notes 

Learners need to know: 
3.3.1 the documents used to check purchase 
invoices and credit notes: 
-  quotation 
-  purchase order 
-  goods received note 
-  goods returned note. 

Learners need to be able to: 
3.3.2 recognise errors: 

-  customer name 
-  customer address 
-  customer reference 
invoice number 
- 
- 
invoice date 
-  credit note number 
-  credit note date 
-  product description 
-  product code 
-  unit price, number of units and 

price for multiple units 
-  discounts for buying large 

quantities 

-  amounts: net, VAT at standard 

rate, total. 

3.4  Record sales and purchase invoices and credit notes in the books of prime entry 

Exclusion: calculation of VAT from VAT-
inclusive amounts. 

Learners need to know: 
3.4.1 the books of prime entry: 
-  sales daybook 
-  purchases daybook 
-  sales returns daybook 
-  purchases returns daybook.  

3.4.2 the columns within the books of prime 
entry: 

-  date 
-  customer/supplier name 
-  customer/supplier invoice 

number/credit note number 
-  amounts (net, VAT and total). 

Learners need to be able to: 
3.4.3 make entries in the books of prime 
entry 
3.4.4 total columns in the books of prime 
entry 
3.4.5 cross cast columns in the books of 
prime entry. 

Exclusion: analysis columns in books of 
prime entry. 

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Process receipts and payments 

4.1 

Enter receipts and payments into a cash book 

Learners need to know: 
4.1.1 the format of the cash book: 
- 
receipts side 
-  payments side. 

4.1.2 the columns within the cash book: 

-  date 
-  customer/supplier 
-  cash and/or bank 
-  analysis columns (including VAT 

analysis column). 
4.1.3 the resources and documents used: 

Learners need to be able to: 
4.1.4 make entries in the cash book: 

- 
receipts 
-  payments 
total columns in the cash book 
- 
-  cross cast columns in the cash 

book. 

Exclusions: opening and closing 
balances in the cash book, the cash book 
as part of the double-entry system. 

-  cash receipts 
-  cheque stubs / paying-in book  
- 
- 
- 

remittance advices 
lists of receipts and/or payments 
lists of Direct Debits and/or 
standing orders 
lists of Faster Payments and/or 
BACS 

- 

-  bank statements 
-  automatic bank feeds. 

4.2  Use the cash book to calculate closing amounts of cash in hand and cash in the 

bank 

Learners need to be able to: 
4.2.1 calculate the closing amount of cash in hand from the opening amount, amounts 
received and amounts paid 
4.2.2 calculate the closing amount of cash in the bank from the opening amount, amounts 
received and amounts paid. 

Exclusion: overdrawn amounts, bank reconciliations. 

4.3  Check the closing amount of cash in the bank against the closing balance in the 

bank statement 

Learners need to be able to: 
4.3.1 recognise receipts and payments on the bank statement: 

-  counter credits 
-  cash withdrawals 
-  standing orders 
-  Direct Debits 
-  debit card payments 
-  cheques 
-  BACS 
-  Faster Payments 
-  bank charges  

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
-  bank interest received 

4.3.2 recognise balances on the bank statement 
4.3.3 recognise items in the cash book that are not on the bank statement 
4.3.4 recognise items on the bank statement that are not in the cash book. 

Exclusions: overdrawn amounts, bank reconciliations. 

4.4 

Identify outstanding amounts for individual customers and suppliers 

Learners need to know: 
4.4.1 the documents used:  

lists of invoices and/or credit notes 

-  sales and purchase invoices 
-  sales and purchase credit notes 
- 
-  cash receipts 
-  cheque stubs / paying-in book  
- 
- 
-  bank statements / bank feeds  
-  software reports: individual 

remittance advices 
lists of receipts and/or payments 

Learners need to be able to: 
4.4.3 calculate amounts owed by 
customers 
4.4.4 calculate amounts owed to 
suppliers 
4.4.5 use an opening amount owed. 

Exclusion: sales, purchase, receivables, 
and payables ledger accounts. 

customer reports, individual 
supplier reports, receivables 
reports, payables report, aged 
receivables analysis, aged 
payables analysis. 

4.4.2 the records used:  

-  sales daybook 
-  purchases daybook 
-  sales returns daybook 
-  purchases returns daybook 
-  cash book. 

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Understand the benefits and risks of using accounting software to complete 
bookkeeping tasks 
5.1  Features and benefits of accounting software compared to manual bookkeeping 

Learners need to know: 
5.1.1 that digital systems can import transactions from a number of sources: 

-  bank records 
-  csv files 
- 

third party software / Apps.  

to work with data more flexibly 

5.1.2 the benefits of being able to integrate, import and export data to and from other 
sources: 
- 
-  save time 
- 
-  communicate information in various formats 
- 
- 
-  easy access to information from single system. 

receive information in real-time: live bank feeds, wider accessibility  
reduce reliance on paper communication 

reduce risk of human error 

5.1.3 that digital systems can produce real-time reports 
5.1.4 that reports may be produced in accounting software: 

real-time financial position 

individual customer reports 
individual supplier reports 
receivables reports 

- 
-  analysis of income and expenses 
- 
- 
- 
-  payables reports 
-  aged receivables analysis 
-  aged payables analysis 
-  bank payments analysis for a specified time period 
-  bank receipts analysis for a specified time period. 

5.1.5 that accounting software can provide benefits to processing customer and supplier 
transactions: 

-  pro-forma invoices 
-  automated calculations  
-  automated emailing of invoice 
-  automated updates of changes to invoices 
-  pro-forma purchase orders 
-  automatic conversion of quotes to sales invoices 
- 
-  duplicate previously raised invoices 
-  automatic checks for accuracy.  

recurring invoicing schedules 

5.1.6 that accounting software can provide benefits to processing receipts and payments: 

-  match bank receipts to sales invoices 
-  match bank payments to purchase invoices 
-  Software learning to suggest automated matching based on previous 

transactions 

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

25 

 
 
-  automatic identification of differences in amounts paid/received to expectation 
-  automated allocation of amount received to cash book and customer account 
-  automated remittance advice 
-  automated reminders of when payments are due 
-  automated payment set up for due dates 
-  automatic checks for accuracy 
-  customer statements in real time to show amounts outstanding 
-  supplier statements in real time to show amounts outstanding. 

5.1.7 that accounting software can have disadvantages: 

-  can create errors when the amount or frequency of a recurring entry changes 
-  manual errors at initial point of entry may still occur. 

5.2  Advantages and disadvantages to users of different types of accounting software 

Learners need to know:  
5.2.1 the differences between ‘off the shelf’ versus bespoke software:  

-  cost  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 

levels of support for users  
timeframe for development 
range of functions used by business 
frequency and ease of updates 
level of training required to use software 
type of subscription. 

5.2.2 the differences between traditional accounting software versus cloud software: 

levels of support for users 
range of functions used by business 
frequency and ease of updates 

-  cost 
- 
- 
- 
-  upgrade capacity 
- 
-  access from multiple devices 
-  access/useability from mobile devices 
-  ability to integrate with third party software / Apps 
- 
-  access to internet. 

level of training required to use software  

type of subscription 

5.3  Accounting software security 

Learners need to know: 
5.3.1 potential threats to data security: 

-  viruses 
-  hacking 
-  phishing 
-  system crashes 
-  employee fraud 
-  corrupt files 
-  natural disasters 

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

26 

 
 
-  accidental deletion. 

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

27 

 
 
 
 
Delivering this unit 

This guidance is intended only to support planning for delivery. Tutors are encouraged to develop 
their own approach depending on the needs of their students but may wish to incorporate some of 
the following ideas.   

This guidance offers:  

•  strategies for connecting unit content and the world of work, including use of real-world 

examples  

•  suggestions for alternative approaches to the same content for students who learn 

differently.  

Tutors may wish to go beyond the scope of the content, as defined against each learning 
outcome, in order to aid understanding and provide context but must always ensure first that all 
required content is covered according to the depth and breadth indicated in the unit specification.  

Embedding literacy  
For most students this will be their first experience of the accounting profession. Students will 
need to learn new terminology and many students may not use English as their first language.   

Students can be encouraged to develop a list of key terms, writing definitions in their own words 
and comparing them with other students’ definitions. Using this approach may not only help to 
embed literacy skills but will also help to reinforce understanding of the key accounting 
terminology that students will go on to encounter throughout their studies.  

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

28 

 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
Learning outcome 1: Understand the role of the bookkeeper  
This learning outcome can be explored through group discussion. Students could be stretched by 
a research task investigating available job roles within the accounting profession. This will help to 
deepen their understanding of the role of the bookkeeper and the tasks that they perform within an 
organisation. Discussion may also explore the need to maintain confidentiality and be aware of 
money laundering, drawing on real world examples.  

The importance of accuracy and timeliness could be reinforced by drawing on students’ 
experiences of situations where personal transactions have gone wrong, such as at the bank or in 
a retail environment or where they have experienced the impact of missed deadlines in the 
workplace. A task where students spot either spelling and/or numerical errors will further highlight 
the need for accuracy.  

Learning outcome 2:  Understand financial transactions  
Bookkeeping terminology and the dual effect can be introduced through activities focusing on the 
resources used within and the trading activity of a range of small businesses. Classification of 
items into assets, liabilities, income and expenses can take place before profit or loss is identified. 
For example, paying rent increases expenses and decreases the bank. The accounting equation 
can be demonstrated throughout the process so that students can confirm that it continues to 
balance after every transaction.  

Learning outcome 3: Process customer and supplier transactions  
Students will need to know both the steps and terminology of the buying and selling process. This 
may be explored from students’ personal experience but should be quickly scaled up into a 
business context. Tutor input and interactive activities, such as card sorts and/or drag and drops, 
provide useful opportunities for students to familiarise themselves with key terms and definitions. 
A human buying and selling process in which students stand in line in order of the documentation 
process can help check their learning.  

Both the process and terminology of invoice and credit note calculation should be explored. Tutors 
can introduce students to key terminology or facilitate this through a card sorting and/or drag and 
drop activity in which students familiarise themselves with the key terms and definitions. Students 
can then go on to explore the calculation of the documents, initially with tutor guidance.  

Students can be stretched by being encouraged to work either individually or in pairs to produce 
an invoice from a blank template. They could also check the work of others in the group. Passing 
students’ invoices around the group allows students to gain confidence in their calculations and 
develop skills in checking the accuracy of documentation. This will also help them when identifying 
amounts owed by customers and to suppliers. Tutors may also consider demonstrating the invoice 
creation process in accounting software.  

Students can then transfer invoice and credit note details into the books of prime entry. Creating 
daybooks from blank templates and asking others to identify any errors that they have made will 
build students’ confidence in the accuracy of their calculations and their use of cross casting. 
Tutors may consider demonstrating the automatic posting of entries from invoices created in 
accounting software.  

Learning outcome 4: Process receipts and payments  
This learning outcome introduces the idea that receipts and payments are entered into the cash 
book. Closing cash and bank balances can then be calculated. Drawing on students’ personal 
experience of the banking system, tutors can introduce the idea of the different types of receipts 
and payments. The group can look at the documentation used before transactions are reviewed 
within a business context, entered into the cash book and a cross cast is completed. A drag and 
drop activity can be used to reinforce the transactions that fall within the respective analysis 
columns. A crossword could be used to check understanding of terms such as BACS and 
standing orders.  

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
A business will compare the closing bank statement balance with that in the cash book and 
students may not recognise that figures in the bank statement are in the opposite column to those 
in the cash book. Discussion can focus on why amounts will initially appear in the cash book or 
the bank statement only prior to identifying the relevant figures. Tutors may consider 
demonstrating how accounting software can use live bank feeds to reconcile the bank statement 
to the cash book and automatically identify any differences.  

Students can work in groups to identify how different documentation and reports will help to 
identify closing customer and supplier balances. Tutors may consider demonstrating reports that 
can be produced in accounting software to identify balances.  

Learning outcome 5: Understand the benefits and risks of using accounting software to 
complete bookkeeping tasks 
This learning outcome can be explored through group discussion with students identifying benefits 
they have experienced through technology, perhaps in banking and retail before developing the 
discussion to be specific to accounting software. Students may be able to identify some types of 
accounting software that they have perhaps seen advertised or experienced in the workplace and 
may be able to identify some of the advantages that software can bring.  

Tutors may want to demonstrate some transactions in accounting software or reports that can be 
produced by accounting software or may wish to use online demonstrations to demonstrate.   
Students may be able to identify real life situations where they have security in place (perhaps on 
their mobile phones and laptops) and can discuss the implications of security breaches. Tutors 
may want to introduce some news stories of where software security has been breached.  

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Links with other units 
This unit has close links with: 

•  Level 1 Working in the business environment 

•  Level 1 Using numbers in business  

•  Level 2 Introduction to bookkeeping 

•  Level 2 Principles of bookkeeping controls 

Test specification for Bookkeeping Fundamentals unit assessment 

There will not be a separate Qualification Technical Information (QTI) document for this 
assessment. 

Assessment method 

Marking type 

Computer-based 
assessment 

Computer marked 

Duration of 
assessment 
1 hour 30 minutes  

Learning outcomes 

Weighting 

1.  Understand the role of the bookkeeper 

2.  Understand financial transactions 

3.  Process customer and supplier transactions 

4.  Process receipts and payments 

5.  Understand the benefits and risks of accounting software to 

complete bookkeeping tasks 

Total 

17% 

10% 

29% 

34% 

10% 

100% 

Bookkeeping Fundamentals 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Delivering AAT qualifications 

10.1  Staff requirements 

AAT requires that all staff who deliver AAT qualifications, including tutors, assessors and 
verifiers, are professionally competent to do so. 

For more information, please refer to the AAT Code of practice for approved training providers 
and AAT Guidance for training providers documents available through MyAAT at 
aat.org.uk/assessments/training-providers/quality-assurance 

10.2  Training provider and assessment venue approval 

Training providers must be approved by AAT to offer these qualifications. To apply to 
become an AAT Approved training provider, email trainingproviders@aat.org.uk with the 
following information: 

full name of organisation 
full postal address, including postcode 
landline telephone number 

• 
• 
• 
•  website address – this must be a live, fully functioning website 
•  other awarding bodies with which the organisation is accredited. 

When AAT has received this information, an account manager will set up a meeting and 
discuss the criteria needed for approval. Only applications that meet AAT’s high standards 
will be approved. 

Existing training providers who wish to offer the qualification(s) should apply through the 
qualification approval section under online centre services, which can be found under the 
MyAAT login. Please note that only the training provider’s main contact can apply for 
qualification approval. 

Some organisations will not wish to become AAT Approved training providers but may be 
interested in administering AAT assessments by becoming an approved assessment 
venue. To apply to become an AAT-approved assessment venue, email 
assessment.venues@aat.org.uk with the following information: 

the full address of the proposed venue 

• 
•  any experience in administering computer-based assessments. 

AAT will evaluate whether a venue meets the minimum hardware and software 
requirements, is a suitable environment for delivering assessments and has the staff to run 
assessments successfully. A representative from AAT will conduct a visit before approval is 
granted. 

10.3  Quality assurance 

AAT monitors training providers to ensure their continued compliance with the AAT approval 
criteria, the AAT Code of practice for approved training providers and appropriate regulatory 
requirements.  

All training providers have an allocated point of contact and will be subject to a range of 
quality assurance activities (including visits, remote activities, self-assessment and thematic 
10. Delivering AAT qualifications  
32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reviews) to ensure that quality standards are being met. The frequency of quality assurance 
activities will depend on a number of factors, including the level of risk associated with the 
provider’s experience in delivering AAT qualifications and/or the outcomes of previous 
quality assurance activities. 

Training providers will receive a report following on from any quality assurance activity from 
AAT, which will identify any actions that are to be addressed. 

AAT may apply an action plan with deadlines and/or a sanction where training providers do 
not meet the requirements set out in the AAT Code of practice for approved training providers, 
which may be accessed via MyAAT at aat.org.uk/assessments/training-providers/quality-
assurance 

Sanctions will be applied at training provider level and will take the following form:  

•  Level 1: Action plan imposed 
•  Level 2: Suspension of the right to claim certification 
•  Level 3: Suspension of the right to register students, schedule assessments and 

claim certification. 

Where AAT considers that there is an irretrievable breakdown in the management and 
quality assurance of the delivery of specified qualifications, AAT will withdraw training 
provider approval. 

10. Delivering AAT qualifications  

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Equality and diversity 

AAT firmly believes in equality of opportunity for all who participate in its qualifications. As 
well as our commitment to the Equality Act 2010, we aim to ensure that: 

•  our qualifications are free from barriers that restrict access and progression 
•  our qualifications are attainable by all who can demonstrate the required standard by 

whatever means 

•  our qualifications, publications and procedures are free from discriminatory practices 
or stereotypes with regards to age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and 
civil partnerships, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sexual 
orientation, caring responsibilities, and part-time working. Assessment tasks and 
study opportunities are sufficiently varied and flexible to ensure that no particular 
group of students or would-be students are placed at any disadvantage 

•  all reasonable adjustments are made to cater for the individual requirements of 

students 

•  assessments are valid and reliable to ensure that all students receive impartial 

treatment.  

We do this by: 

•  considering issues of diversity and equality as part of the development process 
•  avoiding the creation of barriers that might disadvantage those students who share 

one or more protected characteristics 

•  consulting with students (or their representatives) 
•  collecting data for monitoring and evaluation 
•  providing additional information at aat.org.uk/about/what-we-do/responsible-

business-strategy 

11.1  Reasonable adjustments 

A reasonable adjustment is an arrangement that can be put in place by AAT or the 
assessment centre prior to an assessment to help students with a long-term disability, such 
as dyslexia, or who are temporarily impaired, such as a student who has broken their arm, to 
do their best. For example, this could mean applying extra time for dyslexic students or 
allowing the use of a scribe for a student with a broken arm. 

In most cases, it should be possible for the assessment centre to make the decision to grant 
adjustments and notify AAT before scheduling the assessment: for example, granting extra 
time up to and including one-third of the available time as published for that assessment. 
However, if a more significant adjustment is needed, assessment centres may need to 
obtain approval from AAT first. 

Further information about reasonable adjustments and the procedures for notification and 
approval are given in the Guidance on the Application of Reasonable Adjustments and 
Special Consideration in AAT assessments available through MyAAT at 
aat.org.uk/assessments/students/preparing/reasonable-adjustments-special-
consideration 

11. Equality and diversity 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.2  Special consideration 

Special consideration is a process that takes account of a student’s circumstances, for 
example a temporary illness or injury, or some other event outside of the student’s control, 
at or shortly before the time of assessment, which could have had an effect on the student’s 
ability to take the assessment. The process entails a review of the student’s performance in 
the assessment and, if appropriate, the application of a small mark adjustment to 
compensate, as far as possible, for the difficulties that they might have experienced.  

Further information about special consideration and the procedure that must be followed in 
notifying AAT is given in the Guidance on the Application of Reasonable Adjustments and 
Special Consideration in AAT assessments available through MyAAT at 
aat.org.uk/assessments/students/preparing/reasonable-adjustments-special-
consideration 

11. Equality and diversity 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
12. Support for training providers 

12.1  Centre Support team 

The Centre Support team is dedicated to helping training providers with the daily running of 
AAT qualifications. The team also offers one-to-one support for new training providers to 
help them get their AAT qualifications up and running. 

Phone: +44 (0)203 3735 2443 
Email: centre.support@aat.org.uk 

12.2  Regional Account Manager (RAM) 

Each training provider has their own Regional Account Manager (RAM) assigned to support 
them once they have been approved as an AAT training provider. RAMs help provide links 
to local employers and visit regularly to keep training providers up to date on qualification 
developments, apprenticeships and possible commercial opportunities. 

12.3  Weekly email update from AAT – SummingUp 

Every Friday, SummingUp shares all the latest news from AAT with AAT Approved training 
providers, including: 

technical updates 

• 
•  qualification developments 
•  upcoming events 
•  new e-learning materials 
• 

the latest marketing materials. 

12.4  Events for training providers 

Tutors have the opportunity to attend the following events throughout the year.  

Annual conference 
The annual training provider conference is a chance to get together, network and share 
ideas. The conference typically includes: 
•  Topical and technical workshops 
•  guest speaker sessions 
• 

the opportunity to learn about new developments directly from AAT. 

Network meetings and monthly SummingUp Live webinars 
At these events, training providers can raise queries, share best practice and ideas with 
AAT and other training providers. The events: 
•  cover a wide range of topics 
•  keep tutors up to date on the latest issues 
•  provide relevant and cost-effective CPD. 

Technical events (tutor-to-tutor sessions) 
These events are free of charge to training providers and cover a range of our qualifications 
and assessment areas. Experienced and high-performing training providers share their 
experiences, tips and techniques with attendees to help others improve their teaching and 
delivery. 

12. Support for training providers 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.5  Tutor talk forum 

All AAT Approved training providers have access to Tutor talk, where tutors can contribute 
to online conversations about a wide range of AAT issues. Tutors will receive: 

•  unlimited user logins for all AAT tutors 
•  email updates on posts they’re interested in. 

12.6  Online support resources 

In order to help tutors deliver AAT qualifications, a range of support materials are offered for 
all AAT qualifications, such as: 
interactive PDFs 
recorded webinars 

• 
• 
•  videos 
•  podcasts 
• 
•  quiz questions for all AAT units. 

training materials 

All support materials can be found on the Lifelong Learning Portal. 

12. Support for training providers 

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Copyright © 2022 AAT 
All rights reserved. Reproduction is permitted for personal and educational use only. No 
part of this content may be reproduced or transmitted for commercial use without the 
copyright holder’s written consent. 

The Association of Accounting Technicians 
30 Churchill Place 
London 
E14 5RE 
t: +44 (0)20 3735 2468 
f: +44 (0)20 7397 3009 
e: aat@aat.org.uk  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
