Qualification Number: 603/6337/X
Qualification Specification
Version 5.11 published March 2026

-- 1 of 108 --

Updates to this specification 2
Updates to this specification
Since first publication of the Level 3 Diploma in Accounting, the following areas of the
qualification specification have been updated.
Version Date first published What has been updated
Version 5.11 16 March 2026 Section 11: Units Botswana Tax
Processes for Business 2025 added
Version 5.10 24 February 2026 Section 11: Units: Tax Processes for
Business FA24 removed
Version 5.9 17 October 2025 Corrections to anomalies with
numbering for FA24 and FA25
Version 5.8 24 September 2025 Updates to paragraphs:
About AAT
Ethics: we set and raise standards
Student Registration: support every step
of the way
Version 5.7 12 September 2025 Section 11: Units (changes to Tax
Processes for Businesses for FA25 for
assessments from 26 January 2025)
Version 5.6 14 May 2025 Test specification for Introduction to
Bookkeeping unit assessment – link
updated
Updates made to reflect change to
Partner Support / Partner Account
Manager
Version 5.5 17 February 2025 Section 11: Units (changes to Botswana
Tax Processes for Businesses for 2024
for assessments from 12 May 2025)

-- 2 of 108 --

Updates to this specification 3
Version 5.4 27 January 2025 Section 11: Units (finalised Tax
Processes for Businesses for FA24,
removed Tax Processes for Businesses
for FA23)
Version 5.3 10 January 2025 Section 5: RPL statement updated
Version 5.2 28 October 2024 Section 11: Units (changes to Tax
Processes for Businesses for FA24 –
1.1.4 and 1.1.5 correct order)
Version 5.1 16 September 2024 Section 11: Units (changes to Tax
Processes for Businesses for FA24 for
assessments from 27 January 2025)
Version 5.0 8 March 2024 Section 5: RPL statement updated
Section 11: Units (FAPS 3.3.8, MATS
5.3.1)
Version 4.5 29 January 2024 Section 11: Units (Removal of FA21
content)
Version 4.4 02 November 2023 Section 11: Units (Tax Processes for
Businesses for FA23 – removal of “sign
up to MTD” in unit introduction added
“gross” to taxable pay 4.1.6, 4.1.12 and
4.1.13)
Version 4.3 03 October 2023 Section 11: Units (Tax Processes for
Businesses for FA23 – 1.4.1 added
“operation of” and 3.1.5 and 3.1.6
removed the word “period”)
Version 4.2 15 September 2023 Section 11: Units (changes to Tax
Processes for Businesses for FA23 for
assessments from 29 January 2024)
Version 4.1 30 June 2023 Section 11: Units (new Botswana Tax
Processes for Businesses unit)
Section 11: Units (clarification that
Northern Ireland rules are not assessed
in Tax Processes for Businesses)
Version 4.0 09 January 2023 Section 11: Units (clarification of skills
topic area in Tax Processes for
Businesses LO4.1)
Version 3.1 10 June 2022 Removal of tracked changes throughout
document.
Version 3.0 21 January 2022 Qualification go-live date
Section 5.5 / 6.1: Inclusion of dedicated
webpage to the RPL and exemptions
policy
Version 2.1 1 October 2021 Section 11: Units (additions / omissions
highlighted in red)
Version 2.0 30 April 2021 Section 9.6: Results
Section 10: Grading
Section 11: Units (additions / omissions
highlighted in blue)
Version 1.0 1 September 2020 First publication

-- 3 of 108 --

Updates to this specification 4
This qualification is approved and regulated by:
• the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation (Ofqual) in England and
internationally
• the Council for the Curriculum, Examinations and Assessment (CCEA) in Northern Ireland
• Qualifications Wales.
This qualification applies only to students registered with AAT from 1 September 2022.

-- 4 of 108 --

Contents 5
Contents
Updates to this specification .................................................................................................. 2
Contents.................................................................................................................................... 5
1. About AAT ...................................................................................................................... 5
2. Ethics: we set and raise standards ............................................................................ 6
3. Student registration: support every step of the way ................................................ 7
4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 3 Diploma in Accounting ................................... 8
5. About the AAT Level 3 Diploma in Accounting ...................................................... 12
6. Exemptions .................................................................................................................. 14
7. Employer involvement ................................................................................................ 15
8. Support for this qualification ...................................................................................... 16
9. The assessment in detail ........................................................................................... 17
10. Grading ......................................................................................................................... 24
11. Units .............................................................................................................................. 29
Business Awareness ............................................................................................................ 31
Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements ................................................... 45
Management Accounting Techniques ............................................................................... 60
Tax Processes for Businesses (FA2025) .......................................................................... 72
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses (2024) ............................................................ 83
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses (2025) ............................................................. 94
12. Delivering AAT qualifications .................................................................................. 105
13. Equality and diversity ............................................................................................... 107
14. Support for training providers.................................................................................. 109

-- 5 of 108 --

1. About AAT 5
1. About AAT
AAT is a trusted brand for quality-assured accountancy qualifications across the globe,
working with students and members, and partnering with AAT-approved training providers.
We also have licensed members throughout the UK. Our members are represented at
every level of the finance and accounting world, including students studying for a career in
finance, people already working in accountancy and self-employed business owners. To
find out more about us and our impact, please visit aat.org.uk/about/what-we-do
AAT members are ambitious, focused accounting professionals. Many of our members
occupy senior, well-rewarded positions with thousands of employers – from blue-chip
corporate giants to public sector institutions.
AAT qualifications are universally respected and internationally recognised. Organisations
hire AAT qualified members for their knowledge, skills, diligence and enthusiasm because
AAT represents the highest standards of professionalism.
In short, an AAT qualification is a route to some of the most in-demand skills in the world
and provides our students and members with a professional status to be proud of.
Find out more about AAT

-- 6 of 108 --

2. Ethics: we set and raise standards 6
2. Ethics: we set and raise standards
AAT is about more than qualifications. AAT is recognised and respected as a professional
membership body by a wide range of businesses. We require our members to take a
professional and ethical approach throughout their accountancy and finance careers.
It is because of our exceptionally high standards and the professionalism of our members
that AAT members are so highly regarded. This is a benefit to us as a professional body
and to our members.
We publish the AAT Code of Professional Ethics, which sets out a code of fundamental
ethical principles and supporting guidance, and is based on the IFAC Code of Ethics for
Professional Accountants. The decisions that an accounting technician makes in the course
of their professional life can have real ethical implications, and this is where the Code can
help. It:
• sets out the required standards of professional behaviour with guidance to help our
members achieve them
• helps our members to protect the public interest
• helps our members to maintain AAT’s good reputation and public confidence.
To reflect the realities of the workplace, we have embedded ethical dilemmas and decision
making throughout the content of AAT’s qualifications and assessments. This will help to
set our students on the right path as they embark on careers as accountancy or finance
professionals.

-- 7 of 108 --

3. Student registration: support every step of the way 7
3. Student registration: support every step of the way
Registering with AAT is essential if students wish to study an AAT qualification. Once
students have registered and purchased access to their desired qualification, they will be
able to:
• sit AAT assessments
• access AAT support resources to supplement the qualification learning and aid
career progression.
AAT registration is a one-off fee, giving students access to the purchased qualification for
the lifespan of the qualification. Additional fees will apply for sitting AAT assessments.
We support and develop our students through AAT Approved training providers across the
world. We also have an extensive branch network where students can access support and
training and meet other AAT students and professional members in their local area.
Prospective students wishing to register for the Level 3 Diploma in Accounting can do so at
aat.org.uk/register/student
Students are advised to register with an AAT Approved training provider before registering
with AAT. On registration, an email confirming their registration and AAT registration
number will be sent.
Find out more about the benefits of
registering with AAT

-- 8 of 108 --

4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 3 Diploma in Accounting 8
4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 3 Diploma
in Accounting
4.1 Who should choose to study this qualification?
The Level 3 Diploma in Accounting offers technical training in accounting and is ideal for
anyone wishing to pursue a career in accountancy or finance.
The purpose of the Level 3 Diploma in Accounting is to provide students with the specialist
knowledge and skills required to progress to employment in an accounting or finance role,
or to further study in accountancy and finance.
This qualification is a progression route for students who have achieved the Level 2
Certificate in Accounting. It’s also suitable for those who have already started their journey
studying a related subject and are looking to develop their skills in accounting, or for those
who have already started working in finance and who have a need and desire to attain
formal recognition of their skills.
The Level 3 Diploma in Accounting is suitable for adult students, career changers and 16–
19 year old students in full-time education seeking to develop their knowledge and skills in
this occupational area.
4.2 Why choose this qualification?
The Level 3 Diploma in Accounting is a potential route into employment with a globally
recognised qualification accrediting the skills and knowledge required by employers. On
completion, students can successfully undertake a role in finance. It can also be a
stepping-stone to further education, with students progressing onto the Level 4 Diploma in
Professional Accounting. It may be suited to students studying part-time alongside
employment or to those already working in finance. This qualification will also suit those
looking to gain the skills required to move into a career in finance as it provides a clear
pathway towards a successful career in accounting and finance.
In developing this qualification, AAT has carried out extensive consultation with and
received input from a wide variety of stakeholders, including industry experts, employers
and training providers. AAT qualifications benefit from being globally recognised and they
are valued by leading employers, from small high street firms to large accountancy
businesses. They offer students flexible study options, with over 500 AAT Approved
training providers around the world.

-- 9 of 108 --

4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 3 Diploma in Accounting 9
4.3 What does the qualification cover?
The Level 3 Diploma in Accounting covers a range of essential and complex accounting
tasks, including maintaining cost accounting records and the preparation of reports and
returns. Key themes have also been introduced throughout the suite of accounting
qualifications including technology, ethics, sustainability and communication.
This qualification comprises four mandatory units (400 guided learning hours in total):
• Business Awareness
• Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements
• Management Accounting Techniques
• Tax Processes for Businesses.
The purpose of this qualification is to ensure that students are well prepared to progress
into a career in business, finance or professional accountancy, or into further education.
Students will learn and develop skills needed for financial processes, including accounting
principles and concepts, advanced bookkeeping and preparing financial statements. They
will also understand the business environment, technology used in finance and accounting,
business issues regarding payroll and value added tax (VAT) (which may be known by
another name in other countries), issues in business, management accounting techniques,
ethical principles and sustainability considerations for accountants.
Students will develop an understanding of business and its structure and purpose, as well
as appreciating the wider business environment. Students will develop skills supporting
complex financial processes, such as final accounts, reports and returns, use of technology
to provide management accounting information, and completion of VAT returns.
Students will be expected to take responsibility for initiating and completing tasks and
procedures, as well as exercising autonomy and judgement within limited parameters, such
as awareness of different perspectives or approaches within an area of study or work.
Students will need to use a variety of data and information about a business to visualise
and communicate key information needed for business decision making.
The four units are assessed individually through computer-based end-of-unit assessments.

-- 10 of 108 --

4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 3 Diploma in Accounting 10
4.4 What will this qualification lead to?
The accountancy skills developed through this qualification will enable a student to seek
employment with confidence and/or to progress to the next level of learning. It will lead to a
choice of great careers, as well as providing progress onto the Level 4 Diploma in
Professional Accounting and a route to higher education.
This qualification is part of a suite of AAT qualifications available to students that offer both
horizontal and vertical progression channels. Completion of this qualification can provide
progression onto the Associate Bookkeeping membership, where students will gain
professional recognition with the designatory letters AATQB. Students may also progress
onto Professional level and become a full member of AAT upon achieving the associated
membership criteria. The Level 3 Diploma in Accounting also provides the skills required to
support the establishment and operation of a healthy business.
Skills developed through this qualification could lead to employment as:
• an Accounts Assistant
• an Accounts Payable and Expenses Supervisor
• an Assistant Accountant
• an Audit Trainee
• a Credit Controller
• a Finance Assistant
• a Finance Officer
• a Payroll Supervisor
• a Senior Bookkeeper
• a Tax Assistant.

-- 11 of 108 --

4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 3 Diploma in Accounting 11
4.5 Is this part of an apprenticeship?
The Level 3 Diploma in Accounting is fully mapped to the Assistant Accountant
apprenticeship Standard and can be used as part of the On-Programme Learning.
AAT understands that not everyone can access an apprenticeship. In these cases, there
are compelling reasons to choose to take this high-quality qualification, which is valued
because of its track record of delivering successful employment outcomes outside of the
apprenticeship. AAT has many examples of unemployed and career-change students of all
ages who have gained employment directly as a result of achieving this qualification.

-- 12 of 108 --

5. About the AAT Level 3 Diploma in Accounting 12
5. About the AAT Level 3 Diploma in Accounting
Qualification name AAT Level 3 Diploma in Accounting
Qualification number 603/6337/X
Level 3
Guided learning hours (GLH) 400
Total qualification time (TQT) 620
5.1 Guided learning hours (GLH) value
The total GLH value for the Level 3 Diploma in Accounting is 400 hours.
The GLH value for a qualification is an estimate of the amount of time a student spends
learning under the supervision of a teacher or tutor. This might include lectures, tutorials or
supervised study carried out either face-to-face or remotely. Time spent by tutors, teachers
or external experts assessing student performance is also included. It doesn’t include time
that students spend on unsupervised preparation or study.
The GLH value is set and recommended as appropriate by AAT, but some students may
need more or less support to achieve the qualification. The GLH value is not a compulsory
measure for all students. Training providers have the flexibility to offer the qualification in
the hours required by their own students, within the constraints of any funded provision
requirements.
5.2 Total qualification time (TQT) value
The TQT value for the Level 3 Diploma in Accounting is 620 hours.
The TQT value is also a measure of how long it takes to complete a qualification, but it
includes both GLH and unsupervised learning.
Any independent study time or any additional work by the student that is directed by, but
not under the supervision of, a tutor is included in the TQT value. This might include
working through e-learning at home or time spent on independent research.

-- 13 of 108 --

5. About the AAT Level 3 Diploma in Accounting 13
5.3 Are there any entry requirements for this qualification?
AAT does not set any entry requirements for this qualification.
However, for the best chance of success, we recommend that students begin their studies
with a good standard of English and maths. Accountants work at the very heart of a
business and are expected to be able to communicate information clearly and
appropriately to a given audience. Ideally, students should have completed the Level 2
Certificate in Accounting and/or the Level 2 Certificate in Bookkeeping. Prior attainment of
other business or finance studies would also be beneficial.
AAT recommends that students use AAT Skillcheck to ensure that they’re ready to start
on a particular qualification.
5.4 Will current students be able to transfer their results onto this
qualification to complete their studies?
Students who have already started an AAT qualification should try to complete their studies
on their current programme where possible.
If this is not possible, transitional arrangements may be available. In some cases, students
may be able to transfer results for current units to similar units in an updated qualification,
although this will be strictly time-limited.
It’s important to check for the latest information to see if transitional arrangements apply.
More information is available in the AQ2016 to Q2022 Transitional arrangements (PDF)
5.5 Recognition of prior learning (RPL)
If a student can demonstrate that they already have the knowledge and skills to meet the
requirements for a unit assessment, they may be eligible for RPL. This must be arranged
through a registered AAT training provider and mapping of the student’s skills and
knowledge must be uploaded to AAT’s assessment platform.
RPL is planned to be made available from mid-2025. Please refer to the RPL Policy for full
details on restrictions and the process. There are restrictions on the number of units that
may be claimed by RPL to ensure that at least 50% of the qualification will always be
externally assessed. Where RPL is successfully claimed for a unit assessment, the student
will be given a pass mark for that assessment and this mark will be used in determining the
final qualification grade. In order to achieve a higher mark, the student must sit a standard
assessment instead.
More details on RPL can be found in the AQ2016 to Q2022 Transitional Arrangements
(PDF) and the dedicated RPL and exemptions webpage at aat.org.uk/qualifications-and-
courses/exemptions-recognition-prior-learning

-- 14 of 108 --

6. Exemptions 14
6. Exemptions
6.1 Exemptions from AAT assessments
Exemptions may be offered to students who can provide evidence of gaining a previous,
relevant qualification. If eligible, students may be exempt from sitting some AAT
assessments. This includes students who have completed a recognised accounting or
finance-related degree with one of AAT’s partner universities.
There are restrictions on how many exemptions are allowed within each qualification. Fees
will be charged for exemptions. Exemptions will carry a maximum pass into the overall
grade of the qualification.
More details on exemptions can be found in the AQ2016 to Q2022 Transitional
Arrangements (PDF) document at aat.org.uk/training/qualifications/2022/resources and
the dedicated exemptions and RPL webpage at aat.org.uk/qualifications-and-
courses/exemptions-recognition-prior-learning
6.2 Exemptions from the first year of university
AAT qualifications are a great alternative to university, but some students may wish to go
on and study for a degree.
A number of institutions, including universities, offer exemptions for AAT qualified members.
Students should contact the individual institutions to confirm their exemption policies. UCAS
Tariff points may be available for AAT qualifications, although UCAS points will not
automatically offer entry to some HE courses. Further information on UCAS may be found
on the UCAS website.
6.3 Exemptions from chartered accountancy bodies
For students who wish to become chartered accountants, the study of AAT qualifications
may also offer exemptions from the exams required by a range of chartered accountancy
bodies. Full details on exemptions from chartered accountancy bodies can be accessed
through MyAAT at aat.org.uk/membership/professional-membership/reduced-
membership-chartered

-- 15 of 108 --

7. Employer involvement 15
7. Employer involvement
AAT qualifications are recognised and valued by employers as vocational and technical
qualifications that prepare students for the world of work and for working specifically in
accountancy and finance roles.
7.1 Employer involvement in development and assessment
AAT has worked closely with employers in the development of this qualification to ensure
that the qualification demands the skills that an employer would expect of a student at this
level.
Employers also contribute to the development of the live materials used to assess students
on completion of their study. Employer involvement in assessment of this qualification
includes reviewing and editing the assessments and scenarios used to ensure that they
reflect realistic working practices and the wider environment.

-- 16 of 108 --

8. Support for this qualification 16
8. Support for this qualification
8.1 AAT qualification support
Throughout the life of this qualification, AAT will make available a range of free materials
and resources to support tutors and students in delivery and assessment.
Materials produced for this qualification will include:
• practice assessments for each unit
• one Sample Assessment and Mark Scheme (SMAS - Business Awareness)
• Qualification Technical Information (QTI)
• annual Chief Examiner reports.
Additional materials may also include:
• e-learning
• Green Light tests
• webinars
• tutor-to-tutor sessions at network meetings.
All AAT study support resources can be accessed via the AAT Lifelong Learning Portal.
8.2 Published materials
A number of commercial publishers produce support materials for AAT qualifications. While
AAT ensures that commercial publishers have the information, they need to produce
materials in good time to support the qualifications, AAT does not formally endorse any
specific publisher and it does not review publishers’ materials for accuracy.
Tutors are reminded to always refer to the unit content within this specification for what to
teach and what will be assessed and to refer to a range of support materials where
possible. While published materials can offer excellent support and variety in teaching and
learning, they should not be used without reference to this specification.

-- 17 of 108 --

9. The assessment in detail 17
9. The assessment in detail
9.1 How will students be assessed?
Students must successfully achieve the four mandatory unit assessments to achieve this
qualification. The proportion of this qualification assessed by externally marked
assessment is 100%.
All assessments in this qualification:
• are set and marked by AAT (with the exception of RPL, which is marked by the
training provider)
• are computer based
• are time-limited
• are scheduled by training providers or assessment venues
• take place at approved training providers and assessment venues under controlled
conditions.
9.2 Availability of assessments
Unit assessments are available to be scheduled on demand throughout the year, except
during periods set and communicated by AAT.
9.3 Controlled conditions
AAT has published detailed regulations for training providers and assessment venues
regarding how to conduct computer based assessments.
Training providers and assessment venues must ensure that they comply with the
minimum and supporting requirements for the hardware and software used in the delivery
of AAT assessments and must ensure that all assessments are delivered securely.
Each training provider and assessment venue must have at least one computer based
assessment (CBA) administrator and at least one invigilator. Training providers and
assessment venues must ensure that all assessments are invigilated and conducted in
accordance with AAT policies and procedures. To avoid any possible conflict of interest,
the CBA administrator(s) and invigilator(s) for an assessment must not be an active AAT
student or related to any student taking that assessment, and must not be or have been a
tutor involved in preparing students for any of the units that are being assessed.
AAT requirements and regulations for how to conduct assessments within this qualification
will be detailed in an updated version of the Instructions for conducting AAT Computer
Based Assessments guidance document. This will be hosted on a dedicated
assessment support webpage for Qualifications 2022.

-- 18 of 108 --

9. The assessment in detail 18
9.4 Sitting the assessment
The assessments in this qualification are computer based, with time restrictions. Details on
assessment duration for each unit has been included in Section 11: Units.
Students will be presented with a range of question types and formats in the assessment.
These may include multiple-choice questions, numeric gap-fill questions, or question tools
that replicate workplace activities such as completing an extended trial balance. In the
Business Awareness unit, some tasks will require extended written responses. While tasks
generally do not have to be completed in a specific order, students are encouraged to
proceed through them in the order in which they are presented.
Students should familiarise themselves with the CBA environment, assessment platform
software and some of the question styles that they might encounter in the exam by using
the practice assessment materials provided by AAT. Registered students may access the
Lifelong Learning Portal and practice assessment materials through MyAAT.
9.5 Marking
Assessments in this qualification are marked by AAT, with the exception of RPL, and may
be either:
• wholly computer marked
• partially computer marked and partially human marked.
Computer marking is completed within the assessment software in accordance with an
objective marking scheme devised during assessment development. Human marking is
conducted by a team of markers, with appropriate subject matter knowledge, who are
appointed by AAT. Markers use mark schemes devised during assessment development.
Assessments undergo regular quality assurance, which includes:
• standardisation of markers
• sampling for marking consistency
• review of borderline scripts.
9.6 Results
Results for computer marked assessments are made available via MyAAT within 24 hours
of submitting the assessment. For assessments that contain human marked tasks, results
can take up to six weeks to become available via MyAAT.
Students will be advised on what percentage of the marks available they achieved in their
assessments.
AAT’s feedback service provides a simple summary of students’ performance in each
assessment. The feedback statement confirms their overall result and a breakdown of
performance by task. Students will also be able to see marks available and marks
achieved against each task position.
Feedback statements are automatically generated and are designed to help students

-- 19 of 108 --

9. The assessment in detail 19
identify their strengths and any topic areas requiring further study. The student is
presented with a short descriptor for each task to describe their performance in that task
against the topics assessed. There are four feedback descriptors. Each descriptor provides
an indication of how the student has performed in that task and includes generic advice on
how to proceed with their studies or continuing professional development (CPD).
9.7 Re-sits
Students should only be entered for an assessment when they are well prepared and they
are expected to pass the assessment. Where a student is unsuccessful in an assessment
attempt, they should discuss their results with their tutor and revise appropriately before
retaking the assessment.
This qualification is not subject to re-sit restrictions.
9.8 Enquiries and appeals
If the student thinks that their assessment outcome does not reflect their performance, they
can submit an enquiry. Full details of the process can be found on AAT’s dedicated
Enquiries and Appeals webpage AAT’s results enquiry service includes a check of all
procedures leading to the issue of the outcome, checking that all parts of the assessment
were marked, that the marks were totalled correctly and that the marks were recorded
correctly. Students may also request to have the original marking reviewed, to check that
the agreed mark scheme was applied correctly.
The appeals process can be followed if a student is not satisfied with the outcome of their
enquiry or Malpractice Review Panel (MRP) decision. The appeals process checks all
aspects of the original enquiry review or MRP hearing and checks that all AAT procedures
have been correctly followed.
Enquiries and appeals can be made by a student or by their training provider or employer
on their behalf; enquiries and appeals for a group of students can also be made by a
training provider.
There is an administrative fee for enquiries and appeals. All paid fees will be refunded if
the outcome of the enquiry or appeal is in favour of the student.

-- 20 of 108 --

10. Grading 24
10. Grading
To achieve the qualification and to be awarded a grade, a student must pass all
mandatory unit assessments.
Students will be awarded a grade based on performance across the qualification. Unit
assessments are not individually graded. These assessments are given a mark that is used
in calculating the overall grade.
10.1 How the overall grade is determined
Students will be awarded an overall qualification grade (Distinction, Merit, and Pass).
Students who do not achieve the qualification will not receive a qualification certificate and
will be shown as unclassified. This is indicated below for illustrative purposes only.
The raw marks of each assessment will be converted into a percentage mark and rounded
up or down to the nearest whole number. For example, 75.5% would be rounded up to
76%, whereas 82.1% would be rounded down to 82%. This percentage mark is then
weighted according to the weighting of the unit assessment within the qualification. The
resulting weighted assessment percentages are combined to arrive at a percentage mark
for the whole qualification.
Grade definition Percentage threshold
Distinction 90–100%
Merit 80–89%
Pass 70–79%
Unclassified 0–69% Or failure to pass one or more assessment/s

-- 21 of 108 --

10. Grading 25
Example of Pass
Assessment
Contribution
of assessment
to
qualification
grade
Percentage
achieved
Weighted
percentage
contribution to
grade
Business Awareness 15% 70% 10.5%
Financial Accounting:
Preparing Financial
Statements
40% 75% 30.0%
Management Accounting
Techniques 30% 71% 21.3%
Tax Processes for Businesses 15% 78% 11.7%
Total 74%*
*has been rounded to nearest whole number
Example of Merit
Assessment
Contribution
of assessment
to
qualification
grade
Percentage
achieved
Weighted
percentage
contribution to
grade
Business Awareness 15% 90% 13.5%
Financial Accounting:
Preparing Financial
Statements
40% 82% 32.8%
Management Accounting
Techniques 30% 78% 23.4%
Tax Processes for Businesses 15% 85% 12.8%
Total 83%*
*has been rounded to nearest whole number

-- 22 of 108 --

10. Grading 26
Example of Distinction
Assessment
Contribution
of assessment
to qualification
grade
Percentage
achieved
Weighted
percentage
contribution to
grade
Business Awareness 15% 95% 14.3%
Financial Accounting:
Preparing Financial
Statements
40% 93% 37.2%
Management Accounting
Techniques 30% 87% 26.1%
Tax Processes for Businesses 15% 82% 12.3%
Total 90%*
*has been rounded to nearest whole number
10.2 Can students improve their grades?
Any student wishing to improve their grade can do so by re-sitting their assessment(s).
Only a student’s highest result will count towards their grade. If a student re-sits but, in
doing so, achieves an assessment result that would lower their overall grade, their previous
higher result will remain valid and will be used to determine their overall grade for the
qualification.
It’s important to recognise that students achieving a Pass are already demonstrating a
high level of competence, as AAT maintains a pass mark of 70% across all assessments.

-- 23 of 108 --

10. Grading 27
10.3 Grading descriptors
Pass Merit Distinction
Demonstrates understanding
of theories and concepts in
accounting, including
professional ethics and
sustainability.
Demonstrates good
understanding of a range of
theories and concepts in
accounting, including
professional ethics and
sustainability.
Demonstrates sound
understanding of a wide
range of theories and
concepts in accounting,
including professional ethics
and sustainability.
Demonstrates
understanding of the
business environment and
of internal and external
business environments.
Demonstrates good
understanding of the
business environment and of
the implications on
performance and decisions
of internal and external
business environments.
Demonstrates sound
understanding of the impact
of the internal and external
business environments on
business operations,
decisions and performance.
Demonstrates
understanding of
technologies and how they
are used by the finance
function and the need to
protect data.
Demonstrates good
understanding of a range of
developing technologies, the
impact on the role of the
finance function, the
associated risks and the
importance of data security.
Demonstrates sound
understanding of a wide
range of developing
technologies, the impact on
the role of the finance
function, the associated
risks and the importance of
data security.
Recognises, selects and
uses management and
financial accounting
techniques to prepare
accounts for sole traders
and partnerships.
Recognises and selects a
range of management and
financial accounting
techniques and uses these
with a good level of accuracy
to prepare accounts for sole
traders and partnerships.
Recognises and selects a
wide range of management
and financial accounting
techniques and uses them
with a high level of accuracy
to prepare accounts for sole
traders and partnerships.
Performs calculations for
VAT, financial and
management accounting
purposes and records these
in accounting formats,
including spreadsheets.
Performs a range of
calculations for VAT,
financial and management
accounting purposes and
records these with a good
degree of accuracy in a
range of accounting
formats, including
spreadsheets.
Performs a wide range of
calculations for VAT,
financial and management
accounting purposes and
records these with a high
degree of accuracy in a
range of accounting
formats, including
spreadsheets.

-- 24 of 108 --

10. Grading 28
Gathers data and information
to arrive at conclusions, in
order to support
management decision
making.
Gathers and analyses data
and information to arrive at
conclusions, which support
management decision
making.
Gathers and analyses data
and information to arrive at
reasoned conclusions, which
fully support management
decision making.
Communicates information
clearly in written and/or
numerical form in financial
and business formats.
Content is relevant,
structured, uses appropriate
business language and
considers the needs of the
audience.
Communicates information
clearly in written and/or
numerical form in a range of
appropriate financial and
business formats.
Content is relevant, logically
structured, uses effective
business language and
meets the needs of the
audience.
Communicates information
clearly in written and/or
numerical form in a wide
range of appropriate financial
and business formats.
Content is relevant, logically
structured, clear and concise,
uses effective business
language and fully meets the
needs of the audience.

-- 25 of 108 --

11. Units 29
11. Units
All units in this qualification comply with the requirements set out in the Conditions of
Recognition published by the regulators in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and follow
a standard format. The unit specification gives guidance on the requirements of the unit for
students, tutors, assessors and those responsible for monitoring national standards. Each
unit contains a range of sections, as outlined below.
Unit title
This qualification, and its component units, is regulated. The unit title shown is the
regulated title of the unit.
Unit level
All units and qualifications are assigned a level using the level descriptors that apply to
regulated qualifications in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. There are nine levels of
achievement, from Entry Level to Level 8. All units in this qualification are Level 3.
GLH value
The GLH value is defined as all the times when a tutor, trainer or facilitator is present to
give specific guidance. This definition includes lectures, tutorials and supervised study. It
also includes time spent by staff assessing student achievements. It does not include time
spent by staff marking assignments or homework where the student is not present.
Assessment methodology
All units will be independently assessed.
Unit reference number
This number is set by Ofqual, the independent qualifications regulator for England, and is
unique to the unit.
Introduction
The unit introduction gives the reader an appreciation of the unit in the context of the
vocational setting of the qualification, as well as highlighting the focus of the unit. It gives
the reader a snapshot of the unit and the key knowledge, skills and understanding gained
while studying the unit.
Learning outcomes
The learning outcomes of a unit set out what a student is expected to know or be able to
do as a result of their learning.
Scope of content
The scope of content identifies the breadth of knowledge, skills and understanding needed
to achieve each of the learning outcomes. The content provides the range of subject
material for the programme of learning and specifies the skills, knowledge and
understanding required for achievement of the unit.

-- 26 of 108 --

11. Units 30
Content structure
• Each learning outcome is stated in full.
• Topic areas specify the standard that a student is expected to meet in order to
demonstrate that the learning outcome has been achieved. These may be shown as
‘Learners need to understand’ for an understanding topic area or ‘Learners need to be
able to’ for a skills topic area. Some learning outcomes may include both
understanding and skills elements.
• Each topic area is then expanded into key concepts related to that learning outcome.
• Each concept is then further expanded into indicative content where applicable.
Relationship between content and assessment
Students must have the opportunity to cover all the unit content. It is not a requirement of
the unit specification that all the content is assessed. However, the indicative content will
need to be covered in a programme of learning for students to be able to meet the
standard determined in the scope of content.
Delivering this unit
This section includes guidance on how the unit content can be delivered. Tutors are
encouraged to develop their own approach depending on the needs of their students, but
may wish to incorporate some of the ideas included. Tutors may wish to go beyond the
scope of the content in order to aid understanding and provide context, but must always
ensure first that all required content is covered according to the depth and breadth
indicated in the scope of content.
Test specification for unit assessment
The test specification for the unit assessment gives details about the assessment method,
marking type and duration of the assessment. The contribution that each learning outcome
makes to the overall mark for the unit assessment is also provided.

-- 27 of 108 --

Business Awareness 31
Business Awareness
Unit
level GLH value Unit reference
number Assessment
3 70 D/618/3579 Unit assessment
Introduction
This unit provides students with an understanding of the business, its environment and the
influence that this has on an organisation’s structure, the role of its accounting function and its
performance. Students will examine the purposes and types of businesses that exist, and the
rights and responsibilities of key stakeholders. Students will learn what the micro- and macro-
economic environments are and the impact and influence that changes in these environments
can have on performance and decisions. This will include an understanding of the basic
business law relating to the preparation of financial statements for different types of entities.
Students will learn about the concepts of risk, types of risk and risk management for a
business.
Students will understand the importance of professional ethics and ethical management, and
how the finance function interacts with other key business functions to enhance operational
efficiency. Students will learn the core aspects of the ethical code for accountants and will
apply these principles to analyse and judge ethical situations which could arise in the
workplace. They will also understand how acting ethically stems from core personal and
organisational values, as well as understanding the legal and regulatory framework for anti-
money laundering.
The role of the accountant is changing. This change is particularly driven by emerging
technologies, so students will learn about types of technological changes that affect the
accounting profession and the impact of these on performance, data analysis and accounting
processes. An important skill for accountants is being able to analyse, understand and interpret
information gathered and communicated in different formats. Students will understand the use
of and impact of big data, the key features of blockchain, artificial intelligence (AI) and cloud
accounting. Students will gain the skills required to visualise and interpret data to support
understanding and decision making for businesses.

-- 28 of 108 --

Business Awareness 32
Learning outcomes
1. Understand business types, structures and governance, and the legal framework in which
they operate
2. Understand the impact of the external and internal environment on businesses, their
performance and decisions
3. Understand how businesses and accountants comply with principles of professional ethics
4. Understand the impact of new technologies in accounting and the risks associated with data
security
5. Communicate information to stakeholders

-- 29 of 108 --

Business Awareness 33
Scope of content
This section illustrates the depth and breadth of content to be delivered for this unit. All areas
indicated in the table below must be covered in teaching.
Learners may not be assessed on all content, or on the full depth or breadth of a piece of
content. Content assessed may change over time to ensure validity of assessment.
1. Understand business types, structures and governance, and the legal framework in
which
they operate
1.1 The types of businesses
Learners need to understand:
1.1.1 the standard organisation types and their key characteristics:
- sole traders
- partnerships (unlimited liability)
- limited liability partnerships and limited partnerships
- private limited companies
- public limited companies
- not-for-profit organisations including public sector
1.1.2 the impact of business type on the organisation’s governance:
- degree of separation of ownership
- control/management
1.1.3 types of funding used by businesses:
- new capital introduced
- profits retained
- lending
- working capital
1.1.4 common features of business organisations:
- a structure determined by groups of interrelated individuals
- achievement of common objectives, i.e. goal congruence
- co-operative relationships
- defined responsibility, authority, relationship
- individuals working together as teams
- division of work
1.1.5 the differences between manufacturing and service businesses:
- availability of internal information
- the processes and activities
- reporting requirements.
1.2 The legal framework for companies and partnerships
Learners need to understand:
1.2.1 the key elements of companies legislation:
- the rights and roles of shareholders
- the role and duties of directors
- regulates company formation and reporting
1.2.2 the key elements of unlimited liability partnerships:

-- 30 of 108 --

Business Awareness 34
- what a partnership agreement typically contains
- that formal partnership agreements may not exist for all partnerships
- the definition of goodwill and its relevance to the partnership
- the impact of a change in partner on the partnership.
1.3 Business stakeholders’ interactions and needs
Learners need to understand:
1.3.1 different business stakeholders:
- customers
- suppliers
- finance providers
- owners
- government
- employees
- regulatory/professional bodies
- the general public
1.3.2 stakeholders’ objectives and requirements from the business
1.3.3 stakeholders’ contributions to and impact on the business
1.3.4 the relative significance of stakeholders to the business (including attitudes to risk).
1.4 Organisational structure and governance
Learners need to understand:
1.4.1 organisational structure:
- different organisational structures: functional, divisional, matrix
- the impact that the span of control has on the organisation structure, i.e. tall or
flat
1.4.2 the importance of governance in different organisation types:
- what is meant by the term ‘governance’ in a business context
- the impact of organisational structure and size on governance
- the difference between centralised and decentralised control
1.4.3 the role of operational, managerial and corporate/strategic levels within an
organisation
1.4.4 the role of the finance function in contributing towards the operation of the other
business functions and the organisation’s plans and decision making:
- operations/production
- sales and marketing
- human resources
- information technology
- distribution and logistics
1.4.5 the concept of risk and risk management:
- difference between risk and uncertainty
- types of risk:
▪ business risk
▪ financial risk
▪ strategic risk
▪ operational risk (cyber risk and reputational risk)

-- 31 of 108 --

Business Awareness 35
- risk management:
▪ transfer
▪ accept
▪ reduce
▪ avoid.
2. Understand the impact of the external and internal environment on businesses, their
performance and decisions
2.1 The use of PESTLE model for analysing the external environment
Learners need to understand:
2.1.1 the use of PESTLE to analyse the
impact of the business’s macro
environment
2.1.2 political factors affecting a
business:
- government policy
- taxation
- imports and exports
- public spending
2.1.3 economic factors affecting a
business:
- interest rates
- exchange rates
- changes in disposable income
- business cycles
- demand-pull and cost-push
inflation
2.1.4 social factors affecting a business:
- demographic changes
- trends
- unemployment
2.1.5 technological factors affecting a
business:
- changes in technology
- impact on structure
2.1.6 legal factors affecting a business:
- trade regulations
- changes in law and
regulations
2.1.7 environmental factors affecting a
business:
- environmental changes
- sustainability.
Learners need to be able to:
2.1.8 identify PESTLE factors affecting a
business
2.1.9 recognise the impact of PESTLE
factors on the business.

-- 32 of 108 --

Business Awareness 36
2.2 The micro-economic environment
Learners need to understand:
2.2.1 the concept of supply and demand
2.2.2 how prices are determined by the price mechanism (supply = demand, i.e. shifts
along the supply/demand curves) and market forces (shifts of the supply/demand
curves) and the impact of the type of goods (normal, necessity, substitute and
complementary)
2.2.3 the impact of price changes on volumes, revenues, costs and profitability
2.2.4 how the levels of competition in the micro-economic environment are influenced:
- product features
- number of sellers and buyers
- barriers to entry, i.e. licences and regulatory controls, cost to set up, expertise
- location
- availability of information.
2.3 The importance of sustainability
Learners need to understand:
2.3.1 the meaning of sustainability
2.3.2 the three aspects of sustainable performance:
- social
- ecological/environmental
- economic/financial
2.3.3 the importance of:
- taking a long-term view and allowing the needs of present generations to be
met without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own
needs
- considering the needs of the organisation’s wider stakeholders
- long-term responsible management and use of resources
- operating sustainably in relation to products and services, customers,
employees, the workplace, the supply chain and business functions and
processes
- the accountant’s public interest duty to protect society as a whole and the
organisation’s sustainability.

-- 33 of 108 --

Business Awareness 37
3. Understand how businesses and accountants comply with principles of
professional ethics
3.1 The relevance of the ethical code for professional accountants
Learners need to understand:
3.1.1 the principle of integrity:
- the effect of accountants being
associated with misleading
information
- the key ethical values of
honesty, transparency and
fairness when liaising with
clients, suppliers and
colleagues
- how integrity is threatened by
self-interest and familiarity
threats
3.1.2 the principle of objectivity:
- what is meant by a conflict of
interest, including self-interest
threats arising from financial
interests, and compensation
and incentives linked to
financial reporting and decision
making
- the importance of appearing to
be objective as well as actually
being objective
- the importance of professional
scepticism when exercising
professional judgement in
relation to financial accounting
and the link between
compromised objectivity and
possible accusations of bribery
or fraud
3.1.3 the principle of professional
behaviour:
- how compliance with relevant
laws and regulations in relation
to financial accounting is a
minimum requirement but an
act that is permitted by the law
or regulations is not necessarily
ethical
- the link between bringing
disrepute on the profession and
disciplinary action brought by a
professional accountancy body
3.1.4 the principle of professional
competence and acting with due
care:
Learners need to be able to:
3.1.11 recognise threats to integrity in
financial accounting: intimidation/self-
interest threats to present misleading
information to users of financial
statements
3.1.12 recognise threats to objectivity:
intimidation, self-review, advocacy,
self-interest, familiarity threats
resulting in bias
3.1.13 recognise professional competence
and due care threats: keeping
knowledge up to date, pressure in
working role, self-interest, self-
review, familiarity threats
3.1.14 recognise areas in which up to date
technical knowledge can be critical
and the consequences of not
maintaining CPD
3.1.15 recognise when confidential
information: can or must be
disclosed, when it must not be
disclosed, and when situations pose
a threat to confidentiality
3.1.16 recognise situations when
professional scepticism should be
applied and the action to be taken
3.1.17 recognise which safeguards may be
appropriate.

-- 34 of 108 --

Business Awareness 38
- how professional qualifications
and continuing professional
development (CPD) support
professional competence
3.1.5 the principle of confidentiality:
- how financial accounting
information confidentiality may
be affected by compliance with
data protection laws
3.1.6 professional scepticism:
- the meaning of professional
scepticism: assessing
information critically, with a
questioning mind, and being
alert to possible misstatements
due to error or fraud
- the importance of professional
scepticism when exercising
professional judgement in
relation to transactions
recording and financial
reporting
3.1.7 the difference between a principles-
based approach and a rules-based
approach
3.1.8 how documented organisational
policies on relevant issues can be
used as safeguards to prevent
threats and ethical conflict from
arising
3.1.9 the types of safeguard that may be
applied
3.1.10 what an accountant should do
when a threat cannot be eliminated
or reduced to an acceptable level.
3.2 Ethical conflicts and reporting unethical behaviour
Learners need to understand:
3.2.1 how ethical conflicts arise
3.2.2 how to determine whether behaviour is ethical or unethical
3.2.3 key organisational values and compliance with regulations:
- being transparent with customers and suppliers
- reporting financial and regulatory information clearly and on time
- whether to accept and give gifts and hospitality
- paying suppliers a fair price and on time
- providing fair treatment, decent wages and good working conditions to
employees
- use of social media
3.2.4 the stages in the process for ethical conflict resolution when a situation presents a
conflict in application of the fundamental principles

-- 35 of 108 --

Business Awareness 39
3.2.5 what happens when a course of action is unethical:
- when disciplinary action by the relevant professional accountancy body may
be brought against the accountant for misconduct, and the possible penalties
that can arise
- when internal disciplinary procedures may be brought against the accountant
by the employer for unethical or illegal behaviour
3.2.6 the link between lack of professional competence and due care and claims for
breach of contract and professional negligence
3.2.7 the requirement for professional indemnity insurance
3.2.8 when and how to report unethical behaviour to responsible persons at work,
including:
- when it is appropriate to report that a breach of the ethical code has taken
place
- report in line with formal internal whistle-blowing or ‘speak-out’ procedures that
may be available for reporting unethical behaviour
- seek advice confidentially from relevant managers or helplines as appropriate
- circumstances when there may be public interest disclosure protection
available under statute for blowing the whistle externally in the public interest
in relation to certain illegal or unethical acts by the employer
- seeking third-party advice before blowing the whistle externally.
3.3 Money laundering
Learners need to understand:
3.3.1 money laundering law and regulations:
- the process of money laundering (layering, placement, integration)
- the consequences for an accountant of failing to act appropriately in response
to money laundering, including the potential for the offences of ‘tipping off’ and
‘failure to disclose’
- the consequences for any person of ‘prejudicing an investigation’
- the nature of the protection given to accountants by protected disclosures and
authorised disclosures under money laundering law and regulations
- all accountants will be regulated by their professional body or by HMRC
3.3.2 the importance of reporting suspected money laundering in accordance with
regulations:
- select the information that should be reported by an accountant making a
required disclosure in either an internal report or a suspicious activity report
regarding suspicions about money laundering
- timescales for disclosure of suspected money laundering.

-- 36 of 108 --

Business Awareness 40
4. Understand the impact of new technologies in accounting and the risks associated
with data security
4.1 Technology
Learners need to understand:
4.1.1 the impact of emerging and developing technologies on accounting systems:
- automation of processes
- AI and machine learning
- blockchain
- electronic filing of documents
- electronic signing of documents
- data analytics
4.1.2 how technological developments have increased outsourcing and offshoring,
which has impacted business development:
- cost structure
- markets
- locations
4.1.3 the effect of automation and AI in accounting systems on the role of the
accountant and the finance function
4.1.4 the key features of cloud accounting:
- access to data and information from anywhere
- remote data storage so no backup by the business is required
- automation capabilities
- availability of apps/plug-ins/add-ins
- interactions with stakeholders
- real-time data
4.1.5 benefits and limitations of cloud accounting for an organisation.
4.2 Data protection, information-security and cybersecurity
Learners need to understand:
4.2.1 the principles of data protection:
- lawfulness, fairness and transparency
- purpose limitation
- data minimisation
- accuracy
- storage limitation
- integrity and confidentiality (security)
- accountability
4.2.2 the impact of data protection breaches on the individual and business
4.2.3 the importance of maintaining information security:
- accounting systems access levels
- security controls, i.e. firewalls
- integrity controls (input, processing and output controls)
4.2.4 the importance of cybersecurity to address cyber risks
4.2.5 the risks to data and operations posed by cyberattacks.

-- 37 of 108 --

Business Awareness 41
5. Communicate information to stakeholders
5.1 Information requirements in a business organisation
Learners need to understand:
5.1.1 the attributes of good quality information
5.1.2 the type, purpose and characteristics of information at operational, managerial
and corporate/strategic levels within an organisation
5.1.3 the characteristics of big data:
- value
- variety
- velocity
- veracity
- volume
5.1.4 the benefits and limitations of the use of big data
5.1.5 the sources of internal and external big data
5.1.6 the need to apply professional scepticism in relation to big data
5.1.7 the use of data analytics from external sources.
5.2 Visualising information
Learners need to understand:
5.2.1 the importance of being able to
visualise information in different
formats:
- images
- charts
- diagrams
- tables
- matrices
- graphs
5.2.2 patterns or significant anomalies
within data
5.2.3 the importance of choosing the
most appropriate forms of
visualised data for communication
purposes
5.2.4 that accounting software packages
use dashboards to communicate to
non-technical stakeholders.
Learners need to be able to:
5.2.5 interpret visual information to
indicate relationships and trends.
5.3 Communicating information
Learners need to understand:
5.3.1 the principles used to determine the appropriate method of communication to use
both internally and externally by the business
5.3.2 the characteristics of professional communication:
- meeting different stakeholder requirements
- use of appropriate communication medium for desired outcome
- importance of communicating valid information
- importance of confidentiality.

-- 38 of 108 --

Business Awareness 42
Delivering this unit
When delivering this unit, tutors could refer to a range of organisations of differing types and
sizes. This will enhance students’ understanding of how the finance function supports the other
functions and inputs into the short-, medium- and long-term decision making at all levels in an
organisation. The structure of the business will have an impact on how it is controlled and how
the processes and reporting in a business will interact. Through use of different examples,
students will gain an awareness of the differences between tall and flat organisations and the
impact that this has on the span of control.
Students need to know the different business types and the differences in regulatory and legal
requirements of these business types. Service industries have increased, and students should
appreciate the characteristics and challenges of these business and how the processes and
activities differ from manufacturing business. They should also understand the regulatory
requirements for the different business types, including partnerships. Students should be able
to identify who the stakeholders are and the interest they have on the business as well as what
they want from the business. Through case studies, or real business examples, students can
identify stakeholders, their needs and their expectations and consider their power over and
influence on the business.
Throughout the delivery of topic areas associated with external and internal business
environments, students could apply PESTLE analysis to known organisations, either as part of
a project or as group work. Students could explore how the analysis can be used by
businesses to gain an understanding of threats and opportunities that exist in the macro-
economic environment, as well as understanding what political, economic, social, technological
and environmental factors are and how changes may impact on performance and decisions.
When learning about the micro-economic environment, students should understand the
relationship between supply and demand and the effect of changes in price, including what is
meant by price elasticity of demand and how the level of competition in the environment is
influenced.
Ethics is fundamental to everyone working in accounting and finance, and it is key to have a
thorough understanding of the principles and how to apply them to practical situations.
Throughout the delivery of associated topic areas, tutors can help to prepare students by
providing practical examples and opportunities to apply to ethical situations, so that students
can identify the issues and the courses of action to be taken. They should appreciate the
importance of personal and organisational values, culture, policies and code of ethics in acting
ethically. They will need a sound understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that
provide safeguards to the ethical principles, and when and how they should report unethical
behaviours.
There have been changes in the industry as new technologies have been developed, which
have changed the nature of accounting and the role of the accountant. It is therefore important
for students to understand what technologies are used, the processes or activities for which
they are used and the impact they have on the work undertaken by the accountant/finance
function. Students should understand key features of blockchain, machine learning and AI, and
the impact that these have on the processing of transactions, the available data, and the speed
and complexity of reporting. Cloud accounting and electronic filing is increasing used by the
industry, and students should know what these are as well as their key features, how they work
in real time (such as bank feeds), the benefits they offer and the opportunities for add-
ons/apps/plug-ins to undertake specific processes, activities or reports. As well as
digitalisation, it is important to appreciate the risks posed to data, and students should have a

-- 39 of 108 --

Business Awareness 43
basic understanding of the risks of cyberattack and how data can be protected. Showing
examples of these or providing the opportunity to use cloud software would aid students’
understanding.
Students need to understand how to provide information in different formats and are
encouraged to practice interpreting and communicating financial information by visualising
data, such as by using graphs, images and diagrams. Students should be prepared to
communicate information as well as understand the most appropriate method for specific
audiences. Students need to know what big data is, where it can come from and the benefits
that it can provide to organisations. Students should also be aware of the number of risks that
are associated with big data and the need to use big data with caution in some cases.
Links with other units
This unit links with:
• Level 2 The Business Environment
• Level 3 Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements
• Level 3 Management Accounting Techniques
• Level 3 Tax Processes for Businesses
• Level 4 Applied Management Accounting.

-- 40 of 108 --

Business Awareness 44
Test specification for Business Awareness unit assessment
Please refer to the latest Qualification Technical Information (QTI) for specific legislation that will
apply to assessments. Details can be accessed at
aat.org.uk/deliver/qualifications/specifications-outlines
Assessment method Marking type Duration of assessment
Computer based
assessment
Partially computer/
partially human
marked
2 hours 30 minutes
Learning outcomes Weighting
1. Understand business types, structures and governance, and the legal
framework in which they operate
25%
2. Understand the impact of the external and internal environment on
businesses, their performance and decisions
20%
3. Understand how businesses and accountants comply with principles of
professional ethics
20%
4. Understand the impact of new technologies in accounting and the risks
associated with data security
15%
5. Communicate information to stakeholders 20%
Total 100%

-- 41 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 45
Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements
Unit
level GLH value Unit reference
number Assessment
3 150 R/618/3580 Unit assessment
Introduction
This unit provides students with the skills required to produce statements of profit or loss and
statements of financial position for sole traders and partnerships using a trial balance. In
employment, students may be required to prepare a portion of, or all, the final accounts and
this unit will give them the theoretical knowledge needed to complete that task. It will also allow
them to understand how final accounts have been produced, either manually or automatically
through use of accounting software.
Students will gain the double-entry bookkeeping skills required to record financial transactions
into an organisation’s accounts using a manual bookkeeping system. They will take this
forward to carry out adjustments, ensuring that the accounts conform to the accruals basis of
accounting. Students will understand depreciation, where the loss of value of a non-current
asset during a period is reflected in the profit figure for that period. They will also learn to
account for allowances for doubtful receivables where account is taken of the likelihood that
not all credit customers will pay in full. These adjustments are regularly carried out by
employers to ensure accounts give a more accurate view of both the profitability and the
financial stability of the organisation.
By developing an awareness of how the final accounts are used, and by whom, students will
appreciate how to produce useful accounting records, sometimes from incomplete information.
They will learn about the format of both the statement of profit or loss and the statement of
financial position. Students will also learn how to use their double-entry bookkeeping skills to
analyse and correct errors that have been made in the ledgers. Students will also be required
to check the accuracy of the balances on key accounts within the accounting system by
carrying out reconciliations with independent documents, such as bank statements. Accounting
ratios to assess the profitability of sole traders will also be introduced, allowing students to
interpret financial statements more effectively.
The application of ethical principles is threaded throughout this unit. All work must be carried
out with integrity, objectivity and a high degree of professional competence.

-- 42 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 46
Learning outcomes
1. Understand the accounting principles underlying final accounts preparation
2. Understand the principles of advanced double-entry bookkeeping
3. Implement procedures for the acquisition and disposal of non-current assets
4. Prepare and record depreciation calculations
5. Record period end adjustments
6. Produce and extend the trial balance
7. Produce financial statements for sole traders and partnerships
8. Interpret financial statements using profitability ratios
9. Prepare accounting records from incomplete information

-- 43 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 47
Scope of content
This section illustrates the depth and breadth of content to be delivered for this unit. All areas
indicated in the table below must be covered in teaching.
Learners may not be assessed on all content, or on the full depth or breadth of a piece of
content. Content assessed may change over time to ensure validity of assessment.
1. Understand the accounting principles underlying final accounts preparation
1.1 The primary users of final accounts
Learners need to know:
1.1.1 the primary users of final accounts:
- existing and potential investors
- lenders
- other creditors
1.1.2 how final accounts are used by the primary users.
1.2 The framework of accounting underlying the preparation of final accounts
Learners need to understand:
1.2.1 the accounting principles:
- accruals
- going concern
- business entity
- materiality
- consistency
- prudence
- money measurement.
1.3 Qualities of useful financial information
Learners need to know:
1.3.1 the fundamental qualitative characteristics:
- relevance representation
- faithful representation
1.3.2 the enhancing qualitative characteristics:
- comparability
- verifiability
- timeliness
- understandability
1.3.3 the importance of ensuring financial statements are free from material misstatement
1.3.4 the importance of the accountant’s fundamental ethical principles and professional
scepticism when preparing financial statements for users.

-- 44 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 48
2. Understand the principles of advanced double-entry bookkeeping
2.1 Use of the accounting equation
Learners need to understand:
2.1.1 the importance of the
accounting equation for
keeping accounting records
2.1.2 the effect of accounting
transactions on elements of the
accounting equation:
- capital
- assets
- liabilities.
Learners need to be able to:
2.1.3 calculate the different elements of the
accounting equation:
- capital
- assets
- liabilities.
2.2 Classification of ledger accounts
Learners need to know:
2.2.1 the classification of general ledger accounts into:
- assets: non-current (tangible, intangible) and current
- liabilities: non-current and current
- equity (capital)
- income
- expenses.
2.3 Purpose and use of books of prime entry and ledger accounting
Learners need to understand:
2.3.1 the daybooks (books of prime
entry): sales, sales returns,
purchases, purchases returns,
discounts allowed, discounts
received, cash book and journal
(including narratives)
2.3.2 the information recorded in
each type of daybook
2.3.3 how daybooks are used to
update ledger account records,
including dealing with value
added tax (VAT)
2.3.4 the different ledgers and how
they interact: the general ledger
and the memorandum
(subsidiary) ledgers
(receivables ledger and
payables ledger)
2.3.5 control accounts:
- receivables ledger
- payables ledger
- wages and salaries
- VAT
Learners need to be able to:
2.3.7 prepare ledger accounts using double-
entry principles.

-- 45 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 49
2.3.6 that accounting software
automates the transfer of data
into the control accounts.
2.4 Carry out financial period end routines
Learners need to understand:
2.4.1 that at the end of the period
accounts are balanced off
differently depending on their
classification in terms of
income, expense, asset, liability
or capital
2.4.2 that accounting software
automates the period end
routine.
Learners need be able to:
2.4.3 verify general ledger balances by using
relevant sources of information and
performing reconciliations where
appropriate: physical checks, inventory
records, supplier and bank statements,
receivables and payables ledgers
(memorandum ledger accounts), non-
current asset register
2.4.4 transfer balances or carry down balances
on ledger accounts as appropriate
2.4.5 determine whether transactions are
genuine and valid for inclusion in the
organisation’s records.
3. Implement procedures for the acquisition and disposal of non-current assets
3.1 Importance of prior authority for capital expenditure
Learners need to understand:
3.1.1 why authorisation is necessary
3.1.2 the appropriate person in an organisation to give authority.
3.2 The importance of classifying expenditure into capital or revenue expenditure
Learners need to understand:
3.2.1 that International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS)
exist that are relevant to non-
current assets (NCA): IAS 16
3.2.2 the definitions of cost, useful
life, residual value, depreciable
amount, carrying amount
3.2.3 which items can be included in
the cost of NCA under the
current IFRS (capital
expenditure)
3.2.4 that revenue expenditure
should be excluded from the
value of NCA
3.2.5 the importance of only
capitalising expenditure in
excess of the level specified in
the organisation’s policy
3.2.6 the effect of capitalisation on
the statement of profit or loss
(SPL) and statement of
financial position (SFP).
Learners need to be able to:
3.2.7 categorise items into revenue and capital
expenditure for the purposes of accounting
for non-current assets.

-- 46 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 50
3.3 Record acquisitions and disposals of non-current assets
Learners need to understand:
3.3.1 the purpose and content of the
non-current asset register,
including assisting physical
verification and reconciling with
general ledger entries and
balances
3.3.2 the meaning of any balance on
the disposals account
3.3.3 that part-exchange is a different
form of funding to cash or credit
3.3.4 that non-current asset registers
can be part of accounting
software or held independently
on spreadsheets
3.3.5 how gains and losses on
disposal are treated at the
period end.
Learners need to be able to:
3.3.6 update the non-current asset register for
acquisitions and disposals
3.3.7 record acquisitions and disposals in the
general ledger (including part-exchanges)
3.3.8 treat VAT according to the registration
status of the acquiring organisation.
Excluded: VAT treatment of part
exchanges
4. Prepare and record depreciation calculations
4.1 Calculate depreciation
Learners need to understand:
4.1.1 that accounting for depreciation
is an application of the accruals
principle of accounting
4.1.2 that the depreciable amount of
the NCA should be allocated
over the relevant period of its
useful life
4.1.3 that depreciation can be
calculated automatically by
accounting software or
independently through
spreadsheets then journaled-in.
Learners need to be able to:
4.1.4 calculate the depreciation charge for an
asset, using the straight-line method of
depreciation, according to organisational
policy, in terms of:
- using either a given percentage or the
useful life calculation method
- dealing with cases when a residual
value is expected or where no residual
value is expected
- depreciating for a full year or pro-rata for
part of a year
4.1.5 calculate the depreciation charge for an
asset, using the diminishing balance
method of depreciation for a full year with a
given percentage.
4.2 Record depreciation
Learners need to be able to:
4.2.1 record depreciation in the:
- non-current asset register
- general ledger, including producing relevant journal entries
4.2.2 reconcile the NCA register to the appropriate general ledger balances.

-- 47 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 51
5. Record period end adjustments
5.1 Record accruals and prepayments of income and expenditure
Learners need to understand:
5.1.1 that adjustments for accruals
and prepayments are an
application of the accruals
principle of accounting
5.1.2 why there can be a difference
between the amount paid or
received during the period and
the amount recognised in the
statement of profit or loss for
that period
5.1.3 how adjustments for accruals
and prepayments for the
current period and the reversal
of adjustments for the previous
period affect ledger accounts
5.1.4 that accrued and prepaid
income and expense balances
are recognised as either assets
or liabilities
5.1.5 that accounting software
automates recurring entries
including for accruals and
prepayments.
Learners need to be able to:
5.1.6 calculate the amount of a prepayment or
accrual adjustment to be made
5.1.7 account for accruals and prepayments by
making entries in the general ledger,
including using the journal
5.1.8 account for the reversal of accruals and
prepayments from a previous period by
making entries in the general ledger,
including using the journal.
5.2 Record irrecoverable debts and allowances for doubtful receivables
Learners need to understand:
5.2.1 that allowances for doubtful
receivables are an application
of the accruals principle of
accounting
5.2.2 the differences between
irrecoverable debts, allowances
for specific doubtful receivables
and general allowances for
doubtful receivables.
Learners need to be able to:
5.2.3 account for the writing-off of an
irrecoverable debt and for the recovery of
an irrecoverable debt previously written off
in the ledgers
5.2.4 calculate new allowances for doubtful
receivables and adjustments to existing
allowances for doubtful receivables in
accordance with organisational policy
5.2.5 use the journal to record irrecoverable
debts and adjustments to allowances for
doubtful receivables.

-- 48 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 52
5.3 Record inventory
Learners need to understand:
5.3.1 that accounting for inventory is
an application of the accruals
basis of accounting.
5.3.2 the effect that changes in
valuation of inventory have on
profit/loss for a period
5.3.3 that IFRS exist that are relevant
to inventory valuation: IAS 2
5.3.4 that inventory must be valued
at the lower of cost and net
realisable value (NRV) on an
individual item basis
5.3.5 which types of expenditure can
be included in the valuation of
inventory
5.3.6 that accounting software
automates the process of
recording, tracking and valuing
inventory.
Learners need to be able to:
5.3.7 determine the closing inventory figure in
accordance with current accounting
standards
5.3.8 make entries in the journal to record the
value of closing inventory.
5.4 Considerations for recording period end adjustments
Learners need to understand:
5.4.1 that when making period end adjustments:
- there is scope to significantly affect the reported results of the organisation
- accounting software requires the user to enter dates accurately
5.4.2 the need to apply professional scepticism, integrity and objectivity to prevent
misleading and inaccurate information
5.4.3 the effects of including misleading or inaccurate period end adjustments (non-
compliance with regulations, misinformed decision making by users of the final
accounts)
5.4.4 how to respond appropriately to period end pressures:
- time pressure
- pressure to report favourable results
- pressure from authority.

-- 49 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 53
6. Produce and extend the trial balance
6.1 Prepare an initial trial balance
Learners need to understand:
6.1.1 that certain accounts can carry
either a debit or a credit
balance: VAT, disposals, bank,
irrecoverable debts expense
6.1.2 the importance of producing the
trial balance to check for errors
6.1.3 the limitations of the trial
balance as a check for errors
6.1.4 that accounting software
completes the transfer of data
into the trial balance.
Learners need to be able to:
6.1.5 transfer balances from ledger accounts, a
list of balances or written data into the
correct debit or credit columns of the initial
trial balance
6.1.6 correct errors that are not shown by the
initial trial balance
6.1.7 correct errors that are shown by the initial
trial balance by the use and clearing of the
suspense account.
6.2 Prepare an adjusted trial balance
Learners need to understand:
6.2.1 that accounting software
automatically recalculates
balances after adjustments.
Learners need to be able to:
6.2.2 place the following adjustments correctly
into the adjustments columns of the
adjusted trial balance so that it balances:
- closing inventory
- accruals of income or expenses
- prepayments of income or expenses
- corrections of errors
- depreciation
- irrecoverable debts
- allowances for doubtful receivables
- disposals of NCA including part-
exchange.
6.3 Complete the extended trial balance (ETB)
Learners need to understand:
6.3.1 the importance of the fully
extended trial balance for the
preparation of financial
statements
6.3.2 the difference between entries
in the ETB for sole traders and
partnerships.
Learners need to be able to:
6.3.3 complete the SPL and SFP columns of the
ETB, for sole traders, by extending figures:
- from the ledger balances and
adjustments columns of the adjusted
trial balance
- to the relevant SPL and SFP columns
6.3.4 balance off the ETB, for sole traders, by
calculating the profit/loss figure and
entering it into the relevant SPL and SFP
columns.
Excluded: completion of the ETB for
partnerships.

-- 50 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 54
7. Produce financial statements for sole traders and partnerships
7.1 Prepare financial statements for sole traders
Learners need to understand:
7.1.1 the purpose of SPLs
7.1.2 the purpose of SFPs
7.1.3 how the financial statements
are linked to the accounting
equation
7.1.4 how the SPL and SFP are
related
7.1.5 terminology:
- sales revenue = sales –
sales returns
- net purchases = purchases –
purchases returns + carriage
inwards
- cost of sales = opening
inventory + net purchases –
closing inventory.
Learners need to be able to:
7.1.6 prepare SPLs
7.1.7 prepare SFPs using the net assets
presentation.
7.2 Opening and closing capital for sole traders
Learners need to understand:
7.2.1 the reasons for movements in
the capital balance during a
period.
Learners need to be able to:
7.2.2 account for drawings of cash, goods and
services, capital injections and profits or
losses during a period in order to complete
the capital account.
7.3 Produce the SPL for partnerships
Learners need to understand:
7.3.1 why the difference between the
SPL for a partnership and for a
sole trader is the appropriation
account
7.3.2 the purpose and content of the
partnership appropriation
account
7.3.3 how the SPL is linked to the
partnership appropriation
account.
Learners need to be able to:
7.3.4 prepare an appropriation account:
- interest on capital (calculation not
required)
- interest on drawings (calculation not
required)
- salaries or commission paid to partners
7.3.5 calculate each partner’s share of any
residual profit/loss according to the profit-
sharing ratio
7.3.6 prepare a partnership’s SPL.
7.4 Produce the SFP for partnerships
Learners need to understand:
7.4.1 why the difference between the
SFP for a partnership and for a
sole trader is the partners’
capital and current accounts
7.4.2 the difference between the
partners’ current accounts and
the appropriation account
7.4.3 the difference between the
partners’ current accounts and
the partners’ capital account.
Learners need to be able to:
7.4.4 account for drawings in the form of cash,
goods or services
7.4.5 prepare partners’ current accounts:
- interest on capital (calculation not
required)
- interest on drawings (calculation not
required)
- salaries or commission paid to partners

-- 51 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 55
- drawings
7.4.6 prepare a partnership’s SFP using the net
assets presentation.
8. Interpret financial statements using profitability ratios
8.1 Calculate profitability ratios
Learners need to understand:
8.1.1 the relationship between the
SPL and SFP regarding net
profit
8.1.2 the link between gross profit
margin and mark-up
8.1.3 the meaning of profitability
ratios.
Learners need to be able to:
8.1.4 calculate the following profitability ratios to
assist with interpretation of the financial
statements:
- ROCE (return on capital employed):
formula used = profit for the year /
capital employed × 100 (where capital
employed = capital + non-current
liabilities)
- gross profit margin: formula used =
gross profit / sales revenue × 100
- net profit margin: formula used = profit
for the year / sales revenue × 100
- expense/sales revenue percentage
(specified expense including cost of
sales as a % of sales revenue): formula
used = specified expense / sales
revenue × 100).
8.2 The interpretation of profitability ratios
Learners need to understand:
8.2.1 why calculating ratios can aid planning, decision making and control for businesses
8.2.2 factors that may cause changes in a business’s ratios and differences between
businesses’ ratios
8.2.3 whether a ratio is better or worse than a comparative ratio; comparisons can be
made with:
- a different organisation
- a different time period
- an industry standard
8.2.4 the importance of professional scepticism to the interpretation of financial
information.

-- 52 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 56
9. Prepare accounting records from incomplete information
9.1 Identify missing figures
Learners need to be able to:
9.1.1 calculate missing figures relating to income, expenses, assets, liabilities and capital
by:
- selecting relevant data
- using daybooks
- using the cash book
- reconstructing ledger accounts: receivables and payables ledger control
accounts, VAT control account and the bank account
- calculating and labelling the missing figures of reconstructed accounts
- calculating opening and closing balances
- adjusting for VAT.
9.2 Mark-up and margin
Learners need to understand:
9.2.1 the difference between margin
and mark-up.
Learners need to be able to:
9.2.2 calculate margin and mark-up to determine
missing figures
9.2.3 use cost of sales calculations to determine
missing figures.
9.3 Reasonableness of figures when information is incomplete
Learners need to understand:
9.3.1 whether a given figure is reasonable
9.3.2 why an actual balance and a calculated balance can be different
9.3.3 the importance of checking information produced by accounting software for
accuracy
9.3.4 when and how to apply professional scepticism.

-- 53 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 57
Delivering this unit
When delivering the accounting principles underlying final accounts preparation, different
scenarios about what might happen if there were no accounting rules could be explored. Tutors
could use online videos detailing accounting scandals to highlight the repercussions if the rules
are not followed. Students could be encouraged to read articles detailing current events
involving accounting, either from news sources or journals. Students could also evaluate
financial information in terms of the qualitative characteristics of useful information.
In relation to the principles of advanced double-entry bookkeeping, the accounting equation is at
the heart of bookkeeping. Students could be encouraged to list items they would purchase when
setting up a new venture, including buildings, fixtures and fittings. The effect of each these on
the accounting equation could be tracked, leading to a discussion about double-entry. In order to
understand the links between different aspects of bookkeeping, training providers could acquire
or produce invoices and credit notes and use these to populate daybooks and the ledger
accounts. This would lead to a simple trial balance. Tutors could demonstrate how invoices and
credit notes are entered into accounting software and how these update the trial balance, in
contrast to the manual system which uses daybooks. Bank reconciliations can be taught using
students’ personal experience of looking at their bank statement. A discussion as to why the
bank statement shows a credit balance when there is money in the account is a good way of
enforcing the difference between assets and liabilities.
Implementing procedures for the acquisition and disposal of non-current assets could be taught
through the use of case studies, based on actual cases where non-current assets have been
acquired or disposed of.
When preparing and recording depreciation calculations, students could be tasked with
researching prices of an assets, such as cars that are the same model but different ages. The
effect of methods of depreciation on profit and asset values could then be demonstrated. By
preparing accounts over the lifetime of an asset, both writing it off in the year of purchases and
then depreciating it, students could discover the effect of depreciation in giving a true and fair
view of the state of the organisation.
Accruals and prepayments could be illustrated with simulated invoices by reference to real
examples within the training provider or employer. To support delivery of recording period end
adjustments, a local employer could be invited to talk about inventory and how it is tracked and
valued. They could be asked to set questions based on real-life examples of how their inventory
is managed. This could be supplemented by practical examples of situations where the NRV of
the inventory falls to below the cost, for example if inventory is damaged or, in the case of
perishable goods, gets towards its sell-by date.
When preparing an initial trial balance, error correction could be demonstrated practically by
making the errors and looking at the effect on the trial balance using spreadsheets. Errors could
then be corrected and the effect of correcting the error could be investigated in the same way. A
demonstration of the types of errors that could be made on accounting software as opposed to a
manual system could also take place as part of this learning outcome.
Students could research some real partnerships online, such as large accounting companies,
and look at the final accounts, particularly the SFP. Representatives from local partnerships,
such as accountancy firms, could also talk through the format of their accounts. Students could
research the ethics statements which organisations include in their final accounts or publish
elsewhere.

-- 54 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 58
When interpreting financial statements, students could study simplified accounts and be asked
to judge which one to invest in in terms of profitability, prior to calculating the ratios. Following
the study of profitability ratios, this exercise could be repeated and students asked to judge
again. A comparison could be made with their previous decision. Using well-known
organisations, a comparison could also be made of these ratios over time, with students invited
to suggest reasons for the changes in the ratio. Students could be asked to discuss what other
factors should be used when comparing organisations.
Links with other units
This unit links with:
• Level 2 Introduction to Bookkeeping
• Level 2 Principles of Bookkeeping Controls
• Level 3 Business Awareness
• Level 3 Tax Processes for Businesses
• Level 4 Drafting and Interpreting Financial Statements.

-- 55 of 108 --

Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements 59
Test specification for Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements unit
assessment
Please refer to the latest Qualification Technical Information (QTI) for specific legislation that will
apply to assessments. Details can be accessed at
https://www.aat.org.uk/deliver/qualifications/specifications-outlines
Assessment method Marking type Duration of assessment
Computer based
assessment
Computer marked 2 hours 30 minutes
Learning outcomes Weighting
1. Understand the accounting principles underlying final accounts preparation 5%
2. Understand the principles of advanced double-entry bookkeeping 10%
3. Implement procedures for the acquisition and disposal of non-current
assets 10%
4. Prepare and record depreciation calculations 10%
5. Record period end adjustments 10%
6. Produce and extend the trial balance 15%
7. Produce financial statements for sole traders and partnerships 20%
8. Interpret financial statements using profitability ratios 10%
9. Prepare accounting records from incomplete information 10%
Total 100%

-- 56 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 60
Management Accounting Techniques
Unit
level GLH value Unit reference
number Assessment
3 120 D/618/3582 Unit assessment
Introduction
This unit provides students with the knowledge and skills needed to understand the role of
management accounting in an organisation, and how organisations use such information to aid
decision making.
Students will learn the principles that underpin management accounting methodology and
techniques, how costs are handled in organisations, and why organisations treat costs in
different ways. Students will be able to recognise different approaches to management
accounting and provide informed and reasoned judgements to guide management. They will
also learn how to apply these principles and appreciate why effective management accounting
is crucial to any organisation.
Students will learn the techniques required for dealing with direct costs and revenues, and with
the treatment of short-term overhead costs. They will also learn the techniques required for
decision making, using estimates of costs, revenues and cashflow. Students will learn to carry
out procedures as they would in a real-world organisation’s finance function including:
undertaking budgetary overhead apportionments and producing recovery rates, carrying out
basic variance and cost-volume-profit (CVP) analysis, calculating changes in forecast unit
costs and profits, calculating working capital measures, producing simple budgets, monitoring
cash flow and reporting accounting information.
Students will be required to use spreadsheets when making calculations, manipulating and
analysing data, reporting, and forecasting. Skills such as the use of formulas, functions, data
analysis tools, sorting and filtering will be vital within accountancy to enable students to
perform complex calculations quickly and accurately. After analysis, the data needs to be
comprehensively checked and then presented using a range of methods, for example as a
structured spreadsheet with pivot tables and charts.
The application of ethical principles is threaded throughout this unit. All work must be carried
out with integrity, objectivity and a high degree of professional competence.

-- 57 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 61
Learning outcomes
1. Understand the purpose and use of management accounting within organisations
2. Use techniques required for dealing with costs
3. Attribute costs according to organisational requirements
4. Investigate deviations from budgets
5. Use spreadsheet techniques to provide management accounting information
6. Use management accounting techniques to support short-term decision making
7. Understand principles of cash management

-- 58 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 62
Scope of content
This section illustrates the depth and breadth of content to be delivered for this unit. All areas
indicated in the table below must be covered in teaching.
Learners may not be assessed on all content, or on the full depth or breadth of a piece of
content. Content assessed may change over time to ensure validity of assessment.
1. Understand the purpose and use of management accounting within organisations
1.1 Internal reporting calculations
Learners need to know:
1.1.1 the purpose of costing, budgeting
and internal reporting
1.1.2 the importance of providing
accurate information to
management for the purposes of
planning, control and decision-
making.
Learners need to be able to:
1.1.3 calculate revenue, costs, contribution
and reported profits for an
organisation
1.1.4 calculate segmented revenue, costs,
contribution and reported profits by
product.
1.2 Differences between marginal and absorption costing
Learners need to understand:
1.2.1 the difference between product
and period costs:
- some period costs are carried
forward in the value of closing
inventory under absorption
costing
- in marginal costing only variable
costs are included in inventory
and period costs are written off
in full
1.2.2 the differences between costing
techniques:
- marginal costing
- absorption costing
1.2.3 the impact on reported
performance of marginal versus
full absorption costing in both the
short run and the long run
1.2.4 when each technique is
appropriate.
Learners need to be able to:
1.2.5 calculate:
- prime cost
- marginal cost
- full absorption cost.

-- 59 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 63
2 Use techniques required for dealing with costs
2.1 Record and calculate materials, labour and overhead costs
Learners need to be able to:
2.1.1 use appropriate data and information from both manual records and software
packages to:
- prepare and interpret inventory records for materials, work-in-progress and
finished goods
- calculate materials and labour costs
- account for overheads
- calculate cost per equivalent unit of finished production.
2.2 Prepare cost accounting journals
Learners need to understand:
2.2.1 principles of cost accounting
journal entries for:
- direct materials or indirect
materials
- direct or indirect labour
- overheads costs.
Learners need to be able to:
2.2.2 prepare cost accounting journals for:
- materials
- labour
- overheads.
2.3 Apply inventory control methods
Learners need to be able to:
2.3.1 calculate inventory control and valuation measures:
- inventory buffers, lead times, minimum/maximum order quantities
▪ buffer inventory = re-order level - (average usage x average lead time)
▪ re-order level = (average usage x average lead time) + buffer
inventory
Note: students will be provided with either buffer inventory or re-order level
values when completing calculations.
▪ maximum inventory level = buffer inventory + maximum re-order
quantity
▪ maximum re-order quantity = maximum inventory level – buffer
inventory
Note: students will be provided with either maximum inventory level or
maximum re-order quantity values when completing calculations.
▪ minimum re-order quantity = average usage x average lead time
- economic order quantity (EOQ)
▪ = √((2 x annual usage x ordering cost ) ÷ inventory holding cost)
- compliance with inventory control policies
- the effect on reported profits of choice of method
2.3.2 account for inventories using first-in-first-out (FIFO) and average cost (AVCO)
methods
2.3.3 analyse closing inventory balances.

-- 60 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 64
2.4 Cost behaviours
Learners need to understand:
2.4.1 the implications of different cost
behaviours for cost analysis,
decision making and reporting:
- fixed
- variable
- semi-variable
- stepped.
Learners need to be able to:
2.4.2 use the high-low method to separate
fixed and variable cost elements of
semi-variable costs.
2.5 Differences between costing systems
Learners need to understand:
2.5.1 the appropriate choice of costing
system for different business
sectors and individual
organisations
2.5.2 the effect of waste on costing
inputs and outputs.
Learners need to be able to:
2.5.3 record cost information, using
different costing systems:
- job costing
- batch costing
- unit costing
- service costing.
3 Attribute costs according to organisational requirements
3.1 Calculate and attribute overhead costs using traditional methods
Learners need to know:
3.1.1 different methods of indirect cost
recovery:
- apportionment
- allocation.
Learners need to be able to:
3.1.2 attribute overhead costs to production
and service cost centres:
- apportionment versus allocation
- direct method
- step-down method.
3.2 Calculate overhead recovery rates using traditional methods
Learners need to be able to:
3.2.1 calculate overhead recovery rates in accordance with suitable bases of absorption:
- for a manufacturer: machine hours or direct labour hours
- for a service business: suitable basis for the specific business.
3.3 Calculate overhead recovery rates using activity-based costing
Learners need to know:
3.3.1 the concept of activity-based
costing:
- appropriate cost drivers
- use of cost pools.
Learners need to be able to:
3.3.2 calculate overhead recovery rates
using appropriate cost drivers.

-- 61 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 65
3.4 Under- or over-recovery of overheads
Learners need to understand:
3.4.1 how to account for under- or over-recovered overhead costs in accordance with
established procedures:
- making under- or over-absorption calculations
- interpreting the significance of under- or over-recoveries of overhead costs on
unit costs and total profit.
4 Investigate deviations from budgets
4.1 Principles of standard prices/costs and budgeting
Learners need to understand:
4.1.1 a product’s standard price and
standard cost
4.1.2 how standard prices and costs
can be used to develop budgets
4.1.3 different types of budget:
- fixed
- flexed
- rolling
4.1.4 how operating statements are
used to compare budgeted
volume and standard
revenue/cost versus actual
performance.
Learners need to be able to:
4.1.5 prepare budgets for multi-product
organisations:
- revenue
- materials
- labour
- variable overheads
- fixed overheads
- non-manufacturing overheads
4.1.6 flex fixed budgets for actual volume.
4.2 Calculate variances
Learners need to be able to:
4.2.1 recognise variances as being either favourable or adverse
4.2.2 calculate variances using flexed budgets
4.2.3 compare flexed budget versus actual costs and revenues to calculate:
- sales price variance (total)
- raw material variance (total)
- labour variance (total)
- variable overhead variance (total)
- fixed production variance (total).
4.3 Analyse and investigate variances
Learners need to be able to:
4.3.1 determine the cause and effects of revenue and cost variances
4.3.2 recognise significant variances for investigation
4.3.3 report on remedial action to address adverse variances.

-- 62 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 66
5. Use spreadsheet techniques to provide management accounting information
5.1 Organise, record and format data
Learners need to be able to:
5.1.1 organise data:
- design spreadsheets to support:
▪ flexing budgets
▪ the calculation and analysis of variances
▪ production of operating statements
▪ overhead absorption and allocation
▪ short-term decision making
▪ cash budgeting
5.1.2 ensure data is valid and reliable:
- select data from different sources
- enter data manually into appropriate cells and worksheets
- link data from different sources within the same worksheet/across different
worksheets:
▪ copying and pasting special values
▪ linking
- remove duplications in data
5.1.3 format data:
- formatting cells:
▪ advanced formatting i.e. data manipulation, data security, data statistics
▪ decimals, whole numbers, thousand separator, %
▪ currency, accountancy, general, number
▪ show adverse/negative figures with ( ) or –
- produce/format/adjust charts and graphs:
▪ chart production: 3D, exploded, bar, column, pie, line
▪ changing chart type
- chart labelling:
▪ axis scale
▪ titles
▪ legend
▪ data tables.

-- 63 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 67
5.2 Use tools to manipulate, analyse and verify data
Learners need to be able to:
5.2.1 use a range of formulas and functions to perform calculations:
- mathematical and logical functions using absolute and relative cell
referencing:
▪ sum
▪ average
▪ minimum
▪ maximum
▪ round
▪ roundup
▪ rounddown
▪ sumif
▪ count
▪ counta
▪ countif
▪ IF (simple and nested)
▪ VLOOKUP
▪ HLOOKUP
▪ days
- statistical techniques:
▪ goal seek
▪ forecast
5.2.2 use tools to support analysis of data:
- data sort/data filter using single and/or multiple criteria
- conditional formatting (using function)
- lookup tables:
▪ pivot tables
▪ pivot charts
- subtotals:
▪ average
▪ sum
▪ maximum
▪ minimum
- comments box:
▪ show
▪ hide
5.2.3 edit and update data:
- include new data (worksheet/chart)
- consider if any new data is included in any existing analysis/existing charts
5.2.4 verify accuracy of data by using formula auditing tools:
- trace precedents
- trace dependents
- show formulas.

-- 64 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 68
5.3 Use tools to prepare, protect and present accounting information
Learners need to be able to:
5.3.1 protect integrity of data:
- use data validation to restrict data entry and editing
- protect individual and ranges of cells
5.3.2 enhance the visual presentation of data:
- insert/edit headers and footers
- hide/unhide rows/columns
- format columns and rows to enhance understanding of data: font type, font
colour, size, bold, italics, alignment
- freezing rows and columns
- adjust margins, orientation and print area
- use a range of charts to summarise and present information
- chart alteration: moving and resizing, changing chart type, in stacked, 3D,
exploded formats
- changing data series: chart colour/format, add/change cell fill colour
- format charts: altering and formatting scales, axes, labels, data series, data
tables.
6. Use management accounting techniques to support short-term decision making
6.1 Estimate and use short-term future revenue and costs
Learners need to understand:
6.1.1 the concept of contribution, i.e.
revenue minus variable costs.
Learners need to be able to:
6.1.2 use estimates of relevant future
revenue and costs
6.1.3 use cost-volume-profit (CVP) analysis
(both by calculation and by linear
break-even chart) to calculate:
- break-even analysis
- margin of safety and margin of
safety percentage
- target profit
- profit-volume ratio
6.1.4 interpret and report on CVP analysis.
6.2 Examine the effects of changing activity levels
Learners need to understand:
6.2.1 the effect of changing activity
levels on unit revenue, costs and
profits.
Learners need to be able to:
6.2.2 calculate changes in forecast unit
revenue, costs and profits.

-- 65 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 69
7. Understand principles of cash management
7.1 Principles of cash budgeting
Learners need to understand:
7.1.1 the key differences between cash
and profit
7.1.2 principles of forecasting cash
receipts and payments for:
- sales, purchases and
production
- the acquisition and disposal of
non-current assets
- accounts receivable and
payable
- capital/new loans, repayment
of loans and drawings
7.1.3 the funding methods available for
the acquisition of non-current
assets:
- cash
- part-exchange
- borrowing – loans, hire
purchase
7.1.4 the suitability of each funding
method for the acquisition of non-
current assets
7.1.5 the importance of liquidity and
use of resources ratios
7.1.6 the working capital cycle.
Learners need to be able to:
7.1.7 produce cash budgets
7.1.8 calculate working capital using
resources ratios:
- inventory holding period (days) =
inventories / cost of sales × 365
- trade receivables collection period
(days) = trade receivables /
revenue × 365
- trade payables payment period
(days) = trade payables / cost of
sales × 365
- working capital cycle (days) =
inventory days + receivable days –
payable days.
7.2 Improving cash flow
Learners need to understand:
7.2.1 the importance of liquidity for businesses’ survival
7.2.2 the actions that can be taken if insufficient liquidity:
- raise additional finance from owners in the form of capital
- raise additional finance externally in the form of debt
7.2.3 other methods of improving cash flow:
- chase receivables
- delay supplier payments
- offer prompt payment discounts (PPD)
- dispose of non-current assets
- reduce inventory
7.2.4 how accounting software and the use of automation and visualisation can aid
cash flow planning.

-- 66 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 70
Delivering this unit
Tutors can facilitate students’ understanding of why particular costing methods are used by
ensuring examples are relevant and current to the group of students involved. It would also be
useful to highlight that students will encounter in their daily lives some elements of costing,
whether simple or complex, used to determine the selling price of all products and services.
For example, unit costing could be illustrated with products such as mobile phones or an article
of clothing; job costing could be shown by referring to a quote from a tradesperson; inventory
control could be illustrated by using products available in supermarkets; break-even could be
showing using the example of a café or restaurant.
By referring to and using examples from organisations of differing sizes, which could be real or
simulated, tutors will be able to illustrate the importance of overhead recovery and the choice
of costing methods. More complex methods may be required for larger organisations, and
external speakers could be invited to explain to students why they use particular methods
within their organisation.
With regards to teaching budgets, tutors should revisit the fixed budget from Level 2 Principles
of Costing. The principles learnt can be added to by introducing budgets for organisations with
multiple products and flexed budgeting. Students should be encouraged to participate in
discussions about the reasons for and consequences of variances, rather than learning
standard answers.
A starting point for teaching the principles of cash management is for students to review their
own finances and bank statements and build a simple cash budget for their own income and
expenses. The use of reports and examples from organisations can be used to explain the
resources ratios, which will provide the underpinning knowledge for progressing to Level 4.
The use of spreadsheets should be embedded throughout this unit. Tutors should place
emphasis on budgets, operating statements, overhead absorption and allocation and short-
term decision making, when teaching spreadsheet techniques, whilst ensuring that students
fully understand the management accounting techniques applied.
Links with other units
This unit links with:
• Level 2 Principles of Costing
• Level 3 Business Awareness
• Level 3 Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements
• Level 4 Applied Management Accounting.

-- 67 of 108 --

Management Accounting Techniques 71
Test specification for Management Accounting Techniques unit assessment
Please refer to the latest Qualification Technical Information (QTI) for specific legislation that will
apply to assessments. Details can be accessed at
https://www.aat.org.uk/deliver/qualifications/specifications-outlines
Assessment method Marking type Duration of assessment
Computer based
assessment
Partially computer/
partially human
marked
2 hours 30 minutes
Learning outcomes Weighting
1. Understand the purpose and use of management accounting within
organisations
10%
2. Use techniques required for dealing with costs 15%
3. Attribute costs according to organisational requirements 20%
4. Investigate deviations from budgets 15%
5. Use spreadsheet techniques to provide management accounting
information
15%
6. Use management accounting techniques to support short-term decision
making
15%
7. Understand principles of cash management 10%
Total 100%

-- 68 of 108 --

Tax Processes for Businesses FA25 72
Tax Processes for Businesses (FA2025)
Unit
level GLH value Unit reference
number Assessment
3 60 Y/618/3581 Unit assessment
Introduction
This unit explores tax processes that influence the daily operations of businesses and is
designed to develop students’ skills in understanding, preparing, and submitting Value
Added Tax (VAT) returns to HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC). The unit provides
students with the knowledge and skills that are needed to keep businesses, employers and
clients compliant with laws and practices that apply to VAT and payroll. Students will learn
about legislation and the importance of maintaining their technical knowledge through
monitoring updates.
For VAT, students will understand the registration and deregistration rules and the rules
relating to specialist VAT schemes. Students will be able to recognise different types of
supplies and calculate VAT correctly, understanding the importance of the rules relating to
the recovery of input tax and the sanctions and penalties for inaccuracies, omissions and
failure to make submissions and payments within the correct timescales. Students will be
able to verify the accuracy of calculations, invoices and tax points, and will learn about the
correction of errors. When learning about the content of the VAT return, students will
understand how to apply special rules when goods and services are imported and exported
out of the UK and how to extract the appropriate data to complete VAT returns.
In relation to payroll, students will understand the processes for businesses involved in
calculating pay and deductions and the content of documents and reports produced on
software, along with the timescales for submission and payment.
The application of ethical principles is threaded throughout this unit. All work must be
carried out with integrity, objectivity and a high degree of professional competence. There
must be due care with regards to confidentiality about any personal data being processed
and, from a business protection aspect, with the correct approach to professional
behaviour. Students will understand how to communicate VAT and payroll matters to
relevant individuals and organisations.
The rules relating to Northern Ireland are not assessed in this unit.
This unit is based on the Finance Act 2025 subject to assessment from 26 January
2026.

-- 69 of 108 --

Tax Processes for Businesses FA25 73
Learning outcomes
1. Understand legislation requirements relating to VAT
2. Calculate VAT
3. Review and verify VAT returns
4. Understand principles of payroll
5. Report information within the organisation

-- 70 of 108 --

Tax Processes for Businesses FA25 74
Scope of content
This section illustrates the depth and breadth of content to be delivered for this unit. All
areas indicated in the table below must be covered in teaching.
Learners may not be assessed on all content, or on the full depth or breadth of a piece of
content. Content assessed may change over time to ensure validity of assessment.
1. Understand legislation requirements relating to VAT
1.1 UK tax law principles relating to VAT
Learners need to understand:
1.1.1 that HMRC is the relevant tax authority for VAT in the UK
1.1.2 that VAT is a tax on consumer spending, charged on taxable supplies by taxable
persons, including whether the tax charged falls on registered businesses or the
end user
1.1.3 the definitions of:
- taxable supplies
- standard-rated supplies
- reduced-rated supplies
- zero-rated supplies
- exempt supplies
- supplies outside the scope of VAT
1.1.4 HMRC’s rules about:
- what records should be kept
- how long VAT records should be retained
- how VAT record should be retained
- penalties for failure to keep VAT records
1.1.5 HMRC’s rights in respect of inspection of records and visits to registered
businesses
1.2 VAT registration and deregistration requirements
Learners need to understand:
1.2.1 the registration and deregistration thresholds for the normal VAT scheme and
how to apply them
1.2.2 what is meant by the historic turnover method (historic test) and the future
turnover method, (future test) and how to comply with them in respect of
registration.
1.2.3 the circumstances:
- in which voluntary registration may be beneficial to a business
- for voluntary and compulsory deregistration.
1.3 Filing and payment of VAT returns
Learners need to understand:
1.3.1 the timing and frequency of:
- filing VAT returns under the normal scheme
- payment/repayment of VAT under the normal scheme
1.3.2 the circumstances in which monthly accounting may be beneficial to a business
1.3.3 how statutory time limits for making payment differ depending on the payment
method used
1.3.4 that compatible software must be used and authorised for submitting VAT returns
under Making Tax Digital (MTD).

-- 71 of 108 --

Tax Processes for Businesses FA25 75
1.4 Special schemes
Learners need to understand:
1.4.1 the thresholds, qualification criteria and operation of the special VAT schemes:
- annual accounting scheme
- cash accounting scheme
- flat rate scheme
1.4.2 the timing and frequency of:
- filing VAT returns
- payment/repayment of VAT
1.4.3 the circumstances for voluntary and compulsory withdrawal from special
schemes.
1.5 Implications for non-compliance with VAT regulations
Learners need to understand:
1.5.1 the powers of HMRC to penalise a business that has failed to register for VAT
1.5.2 the details of the penalty regime applicable to non-registration or late registration
1.5.3 how the penalty regime applies to late submission or non-submission of VAT
returns (excluding changes in filing frequency)
1.5.4 the powers of assessment that HMRC has in respect of failure to submit VAT
returns
1.5.5 the details of the penalty and interest regime applicable to late or non-payment of
VAT due
1.5.6 the consequences of failing to:
- correct errors properly
- report an error when required to do so
1.5.7 the operational and legal consequences of incorrect recovery of VAT.

-- 72 of 108 --

Tax Processes for Businesses FA25 76
2. Calculate VAT
2.1 Extracting relevant data from accounting records
Learners need to understand:
2.1.1 relevant sources of VAT information
2.1.2 how to identify relevant accounting records that cover the required period of each
VAT return
2.1.3 how to identify and extract relevant revenue, expenditure and VAT figures from
the accounting records
2.1.4 how to validate data and determine that the figures extracted have come from
original and verified source documents
2.1.5 the benefits of accounting software in identifying errors, e.g. incorrect VAT rate.
2.2 VAT invoices
Learners need to understand:
2.2.1 the contents and form of a VAT invoice:
- simplified VAT invoices
- modified VAT invoices
- e-invoicing requirements
- mixed-rated supplies
2.2.2 how to determine the tax point of an invoice, both basic and actual, when there
are:
- advance payments
- deposits
- continuous supplies
- goods on sale or return
2.2.3 the significance of the correct tax point for:
- eligibility for special VAT schemes
- applying the correct rate of VAT
- determining the correct VAT period
2.2.4 the time limits for issuing VAT invoices:
- 14-day rules
- 30-day rules
2.2.5 the rules relating to electronic invoicing
2.3 VAT calculations
Learners need to understand:
2.3.1 the difference between inputs
and outputs, and between input
tax and output tax
2.3.2 the automation of calculations
through use of accounting
software
2.3.3 rounding rules on VAT
calculations
2.3.4 rules for VAT when prompt
payment discounts (PPD) are
offered to customers
2.3.5 the different implications of
exempt supplies and of zero-
rated supplies, and the effect
on recovery of input tax
2.3.6 how partial exemption works,
the de-minimis limit and how
this affects the recovery of input
tax
Learners need to be able to:
2.3.11 calculate VAT on:
- standard-rated supplies
- reduced-rated supplies
2.3.12 calculate VAT when given the net or the
gross amount of the supply
2.3.13 calculate the VAT payable/repayable for
a VAT period from information such as:
- sales and purchases invoices
- credit notes issued and received
- cash and petty cash transaction
receipts
- deposits, advance payments and
delayed payments
- adjustments made for:
▪ fuel scale charges
▪ bad debts
▪ input tax that cannot be claimed
2.3.14 calculate the impact on VAT of:
- PPD

-- 73 of 108 --

Tax Processes for Businesses FA25 77
2.3.7 the identification of what cannot
be claimed as input tax:
- expenditure on employee
and business contact
entertaining, including that
of mixed groups
- purchases and sales of cars
and vans
- assets with private use
2.3.8 the VAT rules on fuel scale
charges, how to apply them
and their effect on the VAT
payable or reclaimable
2.3.9 how to apply VAT bad debt
relief, when this is available and
what time limits apply
2.3.10 how to account for postponed
import VAT.
- fuel scale charges
- bad debts
- items on which input tax cannot be
reclaimed
2.3.15 calculate VAT for international trade:
- imports
- exports.
3. Review and verify VAT returns
3.1 Make adjustments for errors or omissions in VAT returns
Learners need to understand:
3.1.1 if previous period errors or
omissions can be corrected by
amendments on current VAT
returns
3.1.2 the thresholds and deadlines
where previous period errors or
omissions must be declared,
including the timescales during
which corrections can be made
3.1.3 when previous period errors or
omissions must be separately
reported rather than corrected
on current VAT returns
3.1.4 when to report given previous
period errors or omissions that
cannot be corrected on current
VAT returns.
Learners will be able to:
3.1.5 calculate and process the appropriate
adjustments for given previous errors
3.1.6 recognise the impact that the
adjustments for previous errors will
have on VAT.
3.2 Verify information contained within VAT returns
Learners need to understand:
3.2.1 what is included in all relevant
boxes of the VAT return
(excluding Box 2, 8 and 9)
3.2.2 how imports and exports are
treated on a VAT return
3.2.3 the importance of checking the
VAT return before submission
3.2.4 how to identify reasons for any
given differences between the
VAT return and the accounting
records
Learners need to be able to:
3.2.5 review VAT returns from accounting
information
3.2.6 reconcile the VAT return to accounting
records.

-- 74 of 108 --

Tax Processes for Businesses FA25 78
4. Understand principles of payroll
4.1 Employer responsibilities of payroll
Learners need to understand:
4.1.1 that payroll is operated by
businesses or individuals who
employ staff
4.1.2 that HMRC is the relevant tax
authority for payroll
4.1.3 HMRC’s powers to require
businesses to comply with:
- regulations about registration
- record keeping
- submissions of returns
- payment of amounts due
4.1.4 HMRC’s rights in respect of
inspection of records and visits
4.1.5 HMRC’s rules about:
- what records should be kept
- software
- how payroll records should be
retained
- how long payroll records
should be retained
4.1.6 the difference between gross pay,
taxable pay, taxable gross pay and
net pay
4.1.7 that businesses are required to
make statutory deductions from
gross pay:
- Pay As You Earn (PAYE)
- National Insurance contributions
(NICs)
- student loan repayments
- pension contributions
4.1.8 that businesses may be required to
make non-statutory deductions from
gross pay
4.1.9 when businesses or individuals are
required to register as an employer
4.1.10 the data protection principles
specifically related to the personal
data of employees.
Learners will be able to:
4.1.11 calculate the following:
- gross pay
- taxable gross pay
- deductions from the pay of
employees
- net pay
- the amount due to HMRC
4.1.12 reconcile gross pay to net pay
and / or taxable gross pay.
Note: students will be provided with figures
from which to calculate these values.
Exclusion: the calculation of Income Tax,
National Insurance contributions (NICs)
and student loan repayments.

-- 75 of 108 --

Tax Processes for Businesses FA25 79
4.2 Operating payroll
Learners need to understand:
4.2.1 the outline content of forms produced for payroll:
- starter checklist
- payslips
- P45s
- P60s
- P11Ds
- P11Dbs
4.2.2 that employers must produce and distribute forms to employees within the
required time period
4.2.3 the difference between:
- reporting expenses and benefits on forms P11D
- payrolling benefits and expenses
4.2.4 that payroll reports must be submitted to HMRC by employers using Real Time
Information (RTI)
4.2.5 the content of Full Payment Submissions (FPS) and the Employer Payment
Summary (EPS) reports submitted under RTI
4.2.6 that employers must report to HMRC employee payments and employee changes
within the required timescale
4.2.7 the statutory time limits for submitting payroll returns and making payment to
HMRC
4.2.8 the consequences of late payroll returns and/or payment.

-- 76 of 108 --

Tax Processes for Businesses FA25 80
5. Report information within the organisation
5.1 Communicating information on VAT and payroll related matters
Learners need to understand:
5.1.1 who to report relevant
information to
5.1.2 when a query is beyond current
experience or expertise and so
should be referred to a line
manager
5.1.3 the significant effect on cash
flows and cash budgeting of
the requirements to make
payments on time to HMRC.
Learners need to be able to:
5.1.4 communicate the appropriate time
limits for submitting returns and making
payments to appropriate persons
5.1.5 communicate the effects of new
legislation to the appropriate person
5.1.6 provide appropriate information for
VAT:
- the completion of the VAT return
- the discovery of current and previous
period errors and omissions
- determining whether to correct or
disclose errors and omissions
- penalties and assessments
- the effects of a change in VAT rate
or other regulatory changes
- the effect on VAT of a change in
business operations
- effects of adopting special VAT
schemes on payment or recovery of
VAT
5.1.7 provide appropriate information for
payroll:
- the completion of payroll reports
- penalties
- the effects of regulatory changes.
5.2 Legislation, regulation, guidance and codes of practice
Learners need to understand:
5.2.1 where to find information regarding changes to VAT and payroll law and practice
5.2.2 the importance of seeking authorisation before returns are submitted
5.2.3 the relevance of data protection, information security and confidentiality to VAT
and payroll practice
5.2.4 the importance of maintaining up to date and relevant knowledge
5.2.5 the importance of ethical behaviour in relation to VAT and payroll
5.2.6 the importance of updating accounting software regarding changes to VAT and
payroll legislation
5.2.7 the importance of acting in good faith and exercising care in relation to facts or
information presented on behalf of clients or employers when dealing with HMRC,
according to the AAT Code of Professional Ethics.

-- 77 of 108 --

Tax Processes for Businesses FA25 81
Delivering this unit
To deliver this unit effectively, tutors must have up to date knowledge of the areas of tax
covered and how processes may be automated using accounting software. Although the
use of specific accounting software is not covered in this unit, having an understanding and
using examples of the types of reports produced by different accounting systems and for
different types of businesses would be helpful, along with the differences associated with
special schemes, such as the annual, flat rate and cash accounting schemes.
An emphasis should be placed on understanding the sources of data used to produce
reports in accounting systems and confirming their accuracy by applying and understanding
the rules and regulations of HMRC. Knowledge must be updated regularly and the unit
should be taught alongside the relevant extracts from the AAT reference material.
Wherever possible, students should be encouraged to have direct work experience in the
preparation, completion and submission of VAT returns and payroll reports. The use of
simulated activities based on real workplace scenarios would be helpful. Tutors should use
examples of documents such as invoices, receipts, payslips and P60s to aid the
understanding for students, whilst complying with confidentiality, security and data
protection principles. Using examples of businesses who have carried out processes
incorrectly, as well as those who have carried out processes in the correct way, will
emphasise the penalty regimes and the importance of timely, accurate and complete
reporting.
Tutors should illustrate the importance of budgeting and cash flow requirements when
calculating VAT and payroll payments. This could be delivered alongside topic areas within
Management Accounting Techniques.
Links with other units
This unit links with the following units:
• Level 3 Business Awareness
• Level 3 Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements
• Level 3 Management Accounting Techniques.

-- 78 of 108 --

Tax Processes for Businesses FA25 82
Test specification for Tax Processes for Businesses unit assessment
Please refer to the latest Qualification Technical Information (QTI) for specific legislation
that will apply to assessments. Details can be accessed at
aat.org.uk/training/qualifications/2022/resources
Assessment method Marking type Duration of assessment
Computer based
assessment
Computer marked 1 hour 30 minutes
Learning outcomes Weighting
1. Understand legislation requirements relating to VAT 25%
2. Calculate VAT 30%
3. Review and verify VAT returns 20%
4. Understand principles of payroll 15%
5. Report information within the organisation 10%
Total 100%

-- 79 of 108 --

Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses FA24 83
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses (2024)
Unit
level GLH value Unit reference
number Assessment
3 60 A/650/7497 Unit
assessment
Introduction
This unit is optional in the Level 3 Diploma in Accounting. For students based in the UK there
is a UK version of this unit Tax Processes for Businesses, earlier in this specification.
This unit explores tax processes that influence the daily operations of businesses and is
designed to develop students’ skills in understanding, preparing, and submitting Value
Added Tax (VAT) returns to the Botswana Unified Revenue Services (BURS). The unit
provides students with the knowledge and skills that are needed to keep businesses,
employers and clients compliant with laws and practices that apply to VAT and payroll.
Students will learn about legislation and the importance of maintaining their technical
knowledge through monitoring updates.
For VAT, students will understand the registration and deregistration rules, including signing
up for BURS e-Services. Students will be able to recognise different types of supplies and
calculate VAT correctly, understanding the importance of the rules relating to the recovery
of input tax and the sanctions and penalties for inaccuracies, omissions, and failure to make
submissions and payments within the correct timescales. Students will be able to verify the
accuracy of calculations, invoices and tax points, and will learn about the correction of
errors. When learning about the content of the VAT return, students will understand how to
apply special rules when goods and services are imported and exported out of Botswana,
and how to extract the appropriate data to complete VAT returns.
In relation to payroll, students will understand the processes for businesses involved in
calculating pay and deductions and the content of documents and reports produced
manually or on software, along with the timescales for submission and payment.
The application of ethical principles is threaded throughout this unit. All work must be
carried out with integrity, objectivity and a high degree of professional competence. There
must be due care with regards to confidentiality about any personal data being processed
and, from a business protection aspect, with the correct approach to professional behaviour.
Students will understand how to communicate VAT and payroll matters to relevant
individuals and organisations.
This unit is based on the Tax year 1July 2023 – 30 June 2024 subject to assessment
from 12 May 2025.

-- 80 of 108 --

Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses FA24 84
Learning outcomes
1. Understand legislation requirements relating to VAT
2. Calculate VAT
3. Review and verify VAT returns
4. Understand principles of payroll
5. Report information within the organisation

-- 81 of 108 --

Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses FA24 85
Scope of content
This section illustrates the depth and breadth of content to be delivered for this unit. All
areas indicated in the table below must be covered in teaching.
Learners may not be assessed on all content, or on the full depth or breadth of a piece of
content. Content assessed may change over time to ensure validity of assessment.
1. Understand legislation requirements relating to VAT
1.1 Botswana tax law principles relating to VAT
Learners need to understand:
1.1.1 that BURS is the relevant tax authority for VAT in Botswana
1.1.2 that VAT is a tax on consumer spending, charged on taxable supplies by taxable
persons, including whether the tax charged falls on registered businesses or the
end user
1.1.3 the definitions of:
- taxable supplies
- standard-rate supplies
- zero-rated supplies
- exempt supplies
1.1.4 BURS’s rights in respect of inspection of records and visits to registered
businesses
1.1.5 BURS’S rules about:
- what records should be kept
- how long VAT records should be retained
- how VAT records should be retained
1.2 VAT registration and deregistration requirements
Learners need to understand:
1.2.1 the registration and deregistration thresholds for VAT and how to apply them
1.2.2 what is meant by the historic turnover method (historic test) and the future
turnover method (future turnover test) and how to comply with them in respect of
registration.
1.2.3 the circumstances:
- in which voluntary registration may be beneficial to the business
- for voluntary and compulsory deregistration.
1.3 Filing and payment of VAT returns
Learners need to understand:
1.3.1 the timing and frequency of:
- filing VAT returns under the BURS tax requirements
- payment/re-payment of VAT under the BURS tax requirements
1.3.2 the circumstances in which monthly or two-monthly VAT returns are required
1.3.3 the processes for registering and submitting VAT returns under BURS e-services

-- 82 of 108 --

Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses FA24 86
1.4 Implications for non-compliance with VAT regulations
Learners need to understand:
1.4.1 the powers of BURS to penalise a business that has failed to register for VAT
1.4.2 the details of the BURS penalty applicable to non-registration or late registration
1.4.3 the consequences of late submission and non-submission of VAT returns
1.4.4 the details of the penalties imposed by BURS applicable for late submission and
non-submission of VAT returns
1.4.5 the powers of assessment that BURS has in respect of failure to submit VAT
returns
1.4.6 the consequences of late payment or non-payment of VAT due
1.4.7 the details of the penalties and interest imposed by BURS applicable to late or
non-payment of VAT due
1.4.8 the consequences of errors in VAT returns
2 Calculate VAT
2.1 Extracting relevant data from accounting records
Learners need to understand:
2.1.1 relevant sources of VAT information needed by a business
2.1.2 how to identify relevant accounting records that cover the required period of
each VAT return
2.1.3 how to identify and extract relevant revenue, expenditure and VAT figures from
the accounting records
2.1.4 how to validate data and determine that the figures extracted have come from
original and verified source documents
2.1.5 the benefits of accounting software in identifying errors, e.g. incorrect VAT
rate.
2.2 VAT invoices
Learners need to understand:
2.2.1 the contents and form of a VAT invoice:
- e-invoicing and manual invoicing requirements
- mixed-rated supplies
2.2.2 how to determine the tax point (time of supply) of an invoice, both basic and
actual, including when there are advance payments (deposits)
2.2.3 the significance of the correct tax point for:
- applying the correct rate of VAT
- determining the correct VAT period
2.2.4 the time limits for issuing VAT invoices:
- 14-day rules
- 60-day rules

-- 83 of 108 --

Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses FA24 87
2.3 VAT calculations
Learners need to understand:
2.3.1 the difference between output and
input, and between output tax and
input tax
2.3.2 the automation of calculations
through use of accounting
software
2.3.3 rules for VAT when prompt
payment discounts (PPD) are
offered to customers
2.3.4 the different implications of
exempt supplies and of zero-rated
supplies, and the effect on
recovery of input tax
2.3.5 how partial exemption works and
how this affects the recovery of
input tax
2.3.6 the identification of what can and
cannot be claimed as input tax:
- business entertaining,
- purchases and sales of
passenger vehicles
- non-business use
- notional input tax
2.3.7 how to apply bad debt relief, when
this is available and what time
limits apply
2.3.8 how to account for VAT for
international trade:
- imports
- exports.
Learners need to be able to:
2.3.9 calculate VAT on standard-rated
supplies
2.3.10 calculate VAT when given the net or
the gross amount of the supply
2.3.11 calculate the VAT payable/repayable
for a VAT period from information
such as:
- sales and purchases invoices
- credit notes issued and received
- cash and petty cash transaction
receipts
- deposits, advance payments and
delayed payments
- adjustments made for:
- bad debts
- input tax that cannot be claimed
2.3.12 calculate the impact on VAT of:
- PPD
- bad debts
- items on which input tax cannot be
reclaimed
- notional input tax
2.3.13 calculate VAT for international trade:
- imports
- exports.

-- 84 of 108 --

Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses FA24 88
3 Review and verify VAT returns
3.1 Make adjustments for errors or omissions in VAT returns
Learners need to understand:
3.1.1 that previous period errors may be
corrected.
Learners will be able to:
3.1.2 calculate and process the appropriate
adjustments for given previous period
errors
3.1.3 recognise the impact that the
adjustments for previous period errors
will have on VAT.
3.2 Verify information contained within VAT returns
Learners need to understand:
3.2.1 what is included in all relevant
boxes of the Botswana VAT
return
3.2.2 how imports and exports are
treated on the Botswana VAT
return
3.2.3 the importance of checking the
VAT return before submission
3.2.4 how to identify reasons for any
given differences between the
VAT return and the VAT control
account
Learners need to be able to:
3.2.5 review VAT returns from accounting
information
3.2.6 reconcile the VAT return to accounting
records.

-- 85 of 108 --

Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses FA24 89
4 Understand principles of payroll
4.1 Employer responsibilities of payroll
Learners need to understand:
4.1.1 that payroll is operated by
businesses or individuals who
employ staff
4.1.2 that BURS is the relevant tax
authority for payroll
4.1.3 BURS’s powers to require
businesses to comply with:
- regulations about registration
- record keeping
- submissions of returns
- payment of amounts due
4.1.4 BURS’s rights in respect of
inspection of records and visits
4.1.5 BURS’s rules about:
- what records should be kept
- software / manual system
used
- how payroll records should be
retained
- how long payroll records
should be retained
4.1.6 the difference between gross pay,
taxable gross pay and net pay
4.1.7 that businesses are required to
make statutory deductions from
gross pay:
- Pay As You Earn (PAYE)
- pension
4.1.8 that businesses may be required
to make non-statutory deductions
from gross pay
4.1.9 when businesses or individuals are
required to register as an
employer
4.1.10 that employers are entitled to
deduct statutory and other
deductions from employees’ pay
4.1.11 the data protection principles
specifically related to the personal
data of employees.
Learners need to be able to:
4.1.12 calculate the following:
- gross pay
- taxable gross pay
- deductions from employees’ pay
- net pay
- the amount due to BURS
4.1.13 Reconcile gross pay to net pay and /
or taxable gross pay

-- 86 of 108 --

Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses FA24 90
4.2 Operating payroll
Learners need to understand:
4.2.1 the outline content of forms produced for payroll:
- payslips
- Certificate of Tax
- annual return
4.2.2 that employers must produce and distribute forms to employees within the
required time period
4.2.3 that payroll reports must be submitted to BURS by employers in the required
time period
4.2.4 the content of payroll reports submitted to BURS
4.2.5 that employers must report to BURS employee payments and employee
changes within the required timescale
4.2.6 the statutory time limits for submitting payroll returns and making payment to
BURS
4.2.7 the consequences of late filing and/or payment

-- 87 of 108 --

Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses FA24 91
5 Report information within the organisation
5.1 Communicating information on VAT and payroll related matters
Learners need to understand:
5.1.1 who to report relevant information
to
5.1.2 when a query is beyond current
experience or expertise and so
should be referred to a line
manager
5.1.3 the significant effect on cash flows
and cash budgeting of the
requirements to make payments
on time to BURS.
Learners need to be able to:
5.1.4 communicate the appropriate time
limits for submitting returns and
making payments to appropriate
persons
5.1.5 communicate the effects of new
legislation to the appropriate person
5.1.6 provide appropriate information for
VAT:
- the completion of the VAT return
- the discovery of current and
previous period errors and
omissions
- determining whether to correct or
disclose errors and omissions
- penalties, surcharges /
interest and assessments
- the effects of a change in VAT rate
or other regulatory changes
- the effect on VAT of a change in
business operations
5.1.7 provide appropriate information for
payroll:
- the completion of payroll reports
- penalties
- the effects of regulatory changes.
5.2 Legislation, regulation, guidance and codes of practice
Learners need to understand:
5.2.1 where to find information regarding changes to VAT and payroll law and
practice
5.2.2 the importance of seeking authorisation before returns are submitted
5.2.3 the relevance of data protection, information security and confidentiality to VAT
and payroll practice
5.2.4 the importance of maintaining up to date and relevant knowledge
5.2.5 the importance of ethical behaviour in relation to VAT and payroll
5.2.6 the importance of updating any accounting software regarding changes to VAT
and payroll legislation
5.2.7 the importance of acting in good faith and exercising care in relation to facts or
information presented on behalf of clients or employers when dealing with
BURS, according to the AAT Code of Professional Ethics.

-- 88 of 108 --

Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses FA24 92
Delivering this unit
To deliver this unit effectively, tutors must have up to date knowledge of the areas of tax
covered and how processes may be automated using accounting software. Although the
use of specific accounting software is not covered in this unit, having an understanding and
using examples of the types of reports produced by different accounting systems and for
different types of businesses would be helpful.
An emphasis should be placed on understanding the sources of data used to produce
reports in accounting systems and confirming their accuracy by applying and understanding
the rules and regulations of BURS. Knowledge must be updated regularly, and the unit
should be taught alongside the relevant extracts from the AAT Reference Material.
Wherever possible, students should be encouraged to have direct work experience in the
preparation, completion and submission of VAT returns and payroll reports. The use of
simulated activities based on real workplace scenarios would be helpful. Tutors should use
examples of documents such as invoices, receipts, payslips and annual returns to aid the
understanding for students, whilst complying with confidentiality, security and data
protection principles. Using examples of businesses who have carried out processes
incorrectly, as well as those who have carried out processes in the correct way, will
emphasise the penalty charges and the importance of timely, accurate and complete
reporting.
Tutors should illustrate the importance of budgeting and cash flow requirements when
calculating VAT and payroll payments. This could be delivered alongside topic areas within
Management Accounting Techniques.
Links with other units
This unit links with the following units:
• Level 3 Business Awareness
• Level 3 Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements
• Level 3 Management Accounting Techniques.

-- 89 of 108 --

Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses FA24 93
Test specification for Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses unit
assessment
Please refer to the latest Qualification Technical Information (QTI) for specific legislation that
will apply to assessments. Details can be accessed at
https://www.aat.org.uk/deliver/qualifications/specifications-outlines
Assessment method Marking type Duration of assessment
Computer based
assessment
Computer marked 1 hour 30 minutes
Learning outcomes Weighting
1. Understand legislation requirements relating to VAT 25%
2. Calculate VAT 30%
3. Review and verify VAT returns 20%
4. Understand principles of payroll 15%
5. Report information within the organisation 10%
Total 100%

-- 90 of 108 --

94
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses 2025
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses (2025)
Unit
level GLH value Unit reference
number Assessment
3 60 A/650/7497 Unit
assessment
Introduction
This unit is optional in the Level 3 Diploma in Accounting. For students based in the UK
there is a UK version of this unit Tax Processes for Businesses, earlier in this
specification.
This unit explores tax processes that influence the daily operations of businesses and is
designed to develop students’ skills in understanding, preparing, and submitting Value
Added Tax (VAT) returns to the Botswana Unified Revenue Services (BURS). The unit
provides students with the knowledge and skills that are needed to keep businesses,
employers and clients compliant with laws and practices that apply to VAT and payroll.
Students will learn about legislation and the importance of maintaining their technical
knowledge through monitoring updates.
For VAT, students will understand the registration and deregistration rules, including
signing up for BURS e-Services. Students will be able to recognise different types of
supplies and calculate VAT correctly, understanding the importance of the rules relating to
the recovery of input tax and the sanctions and penalties for inaccuracies, omissions, and
failure to make submissions and payments within the correct timescales. Students will be
able to verify the accuracy of calculations, invoices and tax points, and will learn about the
correction of errors. When learning about the content of the VAT return, students will
understand how to apply special rules when goods and services are imported and
exported out of Botswana, and how to extract the appropriate data to complete VAT
returns.
In relation to payroll, students will understand the processes for businesses involved in
calculating pay and deductions and the content of documents and reports produced
manually or on software, along with the timescales for submission and payment.
The application of ethical principles is threaded throughout this unit. All work must be
carried out with integrity, objectivity and a high degree of professional competence. There
must be due care with regards to confidentiality about any personal data being processed
and, from a business protection aspect, with the correct approach to professional
behaviour. Students will understand how to communicate VAT and payroll matters to
relevant individuals and organisations.
This unit is based on the Tax year 1 July 2024 – 30 June 2025 subject to
assessment from 15 June 2026.

-- 91 of 108 --

95
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses 2025
Learning outcomes
1. Understand legislation requirements relating to VAT
2. Calculate VAT
3. Review and verify VAT returns
4. Understand principles of payroll
5. Report information within the organisation

-- 92 of 108 --

96
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses 2025
Scope of content
This section illustrates the depth and breadth of content to be delivered for this unit. All areas
indicated in the table below must be covered in teaching.
Learners may not be assessed on all content, or on the full depth or breadth of a piece of content.
Content assessed may change over time to ensure validity of assessment.
1. Understand legislation requirements relating to VAT
1.1 Botswana tax law principles relating to VAT
Learners need to understand:
1.1.1 that BURS is the relevant tax authority for VAT in Botswana
1.1.2 that VAT is a tax on consumer spending, charged on taxable supplies by taxable
persons, including whether the tax charged falls on registered businesses or the
end user
1.1.3 the definitions of:
- taxable supplies
- standard-rated supplies
- zero-rated supplies
- exempt supplies
1.1.4 BURS’s rights in respect of inspection of records and visits to registered
businesses
1.1.5 BURS’S rules about:
- what records should be kept
- how long VAT records should be retained
- how VAT records should be retained
1.2 VAT registration and deregistration requirements
Learners need to understand:
1.2.1 the registration thresholds for VAT and how to apply them
1.2.2 what is meant by the historic turnover method (historic test) and the future
turnover method (future turnover test) and how to comply with them in respect of
registration.
1.2.3 the circumstances:
- in which voluntary registration may be beneficial to the business
- for voluntary and compulsory deregistration.
1.3 Filing and payment of VAT returns
Learners need to understand:
1.3.1 the timing and frequency of:
- filing VAT returns under the BURS tax requirements
- payment/re-payment of VAT under the BURS tax requirements
1.3.2 the circumstances in which monthly or two-monthly VAT returns are required
1.3.3 the processes for registering and submitting VAT returns under BURS e-services

-- 93 of 108 --

97
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses 2025
1.4 Implications for non-compliance with VAT regulations
Learners need to understand:
1.4.1 the powers of BURS to penalise a business that has failed to register for VAT
1.4.2 the details of the BURS penalty applicable to non-registration or late registration
1.4.3 the consequences of late submission and non-submission of VAT returns
1.4.4 the details of the penalties imposed by BURS applicable for late submission and
non-submission of VAT returns
1.4.5 the powers of assessment that BURS has in respect of failure to submit VAT
returns
1.4.6 the consequences of late payment or non-payment of VAT due
1.4.7 the details of the penalties and interest imposed by BURS applicable to late or
non-payment of VAT due
1.4.8 the consequences of errors in VAT returns
2 Calculate VAT
2.1 Extracting relevant data from accounting records
Learners need to understand:
2.1.1 relevant sources of VAT information
2.1.2 how to identify relevant accounting records that cover the required period of
each VAT return
2.1.3 how to identify and extract relevant revenue, expenditure and VAT figures from
the accounting records
2.1.4 how to validate data and determine that the figures extracted have come from
original and verified source documents
2.1.5 the benefits of accounting software in identifying errors, e.g. incorrect VAT
rate.
2.2 VAT invoices
Learners need to understand:
2.2.1 the contents and form of a VAT invoice:
- e-invoicing and manual invoicing requirements
- mixed-rated supplies
2.2.2 how to determine the tax point (time of supply) of an invoice, both basic and
actual, including when there are advance payments (deposits)
2.2.3 the significance of the correct tax point for:
- applying the correct rate of VAT
- determining the correct VAT period
2.2.4 the time limits for issuing VAT invoices:
- 14-day rules
- 60-day rules

-- 94 of 108 --

98
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses 2025
2.3 VAT calculations
Learners need to understand: Learners need to be able to:
2.3.9 calculate VAT on standard-rated
supplies
2.3.10 calculate VAT when given the net or
the gross amount of the supply
2.3.11 calculate the VAT payable/repayable
for a VAT period from information
such as:
- sales and purchases invoices
- credit notes issued and received
- cash and petty cash transaction
receipts
- deposits, advance payments and
delayed payments
- adjustments made for:
• bad debts
• input tax that cannot be
claimed
2.3.12 calculate the impact on VAT of:
- PPD
- bad debts
- items on which input tax cannot be
reclaimed
- notional input tax
2.3.13 calculate VAT for international trade:
- imports
- exports.
2.3.1 the difference between outputs
and inputs, and between output
tax and input tax
2.3.2 the automation of calculations
through use of accounting
software
2.3.3 rules for VAT when prompt
payment discounts (PPD) are
offered to customers
2.3.4 the different implications of
exempt supplies and of zero-rated
supplies, and the effect on
recovery of input tax
2.3.5 how partial exemption works and
how this affects the recovery of
input tax
2.3.6 the identification of what can and
cannot be claimed as input tax:
- business entertaining,
- purchases and sales of
passenger vehicles
- non-business use
- notional input tax
2.3.7 how to reclaim VAT on bad debts,
when this is available and what
time limits apply
2.3.8 how to account for VAT for
international trade:
- imports
- exports.

-- 95 of 108 --

99
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses 2025
3 Review and verify VAT returns
3.1 Make adjustments for errors or omissions in VAT returns
Learners need to understand:
3.1.1 that previous period errors may be
corrected.
Learners will be able to:
3.1.2 calculate and process the appropriate
adjustments for given previous period
errors
3.1.3 recognise the impact that the
adjustments for previous period errors
will have on VAT.
3.2 Verify information contained within VAT returns
Learners need to understand:
3.2.1 what is included in all relevant
boxes of the Botswana VAT
return
3.2.2 how imports and exports are
treated on the Botswana VAT
return
3.2.3 the importance of checking the
VAT return before submission
3.2.4 how to identify reasons for any
given differences between the
VAT return and the VAT control
account
Learners need to be able to:
3.2.5 review VAT returns from accounting
information
3.2.6 reconcile the VAT return to accounting
records.

-- 96 of 108 --

100
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses 2025
4 Understand principles of payroll
4
.
1
Employer responsibilities of payroll
Learners need to understand: Learners need to be able to:
4.1.1 that payroll is operated by
businesses or individuals who
employ staff
4.1.2 that BURS is the relevant tax
authority for payroll
4.1.3 BURS’s powers to require
businesses to comply with:
- regulations about registration
- record keeping
- submissions of returns
- payment of amounts due
4.1.4 BURS’s rights in respect of
inspection of records and visits
4.1.11 calculate the following:
- gross pay
- taxable gross pay
- deductions from the pay of
employees
- net pay
- the amount due to BURS
4.1.12 reconcile gross pay to net pay and / or
taxable gross pay
4.1.5 BURS’s rules about:
- what records should be kept
- software / manual system
used
- how payroll records should be
retained
- how long payroll records
should be retained
4.1.6 the difference between gross pay,
taxable gross pay and net pay
4.1.7 that businesses are required to
make statutory deductions from
gross pay:
- Pay As You Earn (PAYE)
- pensions
4.1.8 that businesses may be required
to make non-statutory deductions
from gross pay
4.1.9 when businesses or individuals are
required to register as an
employer
4.1.10 the data protection principles
specifically related to the personal
data of employees.

-- 97 of 108 --

101
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses 2025
4.2 Operating payroll
Learners need to understand:
4.2.1 the outline content of forms produced for payroll:
- payslips
- Certificate of Tax
- annual return
- monthly returns
4.2.2 that employers must produce and distribute forms to employees within the
required time period
4.2.3 that payroll reports must be submitted to BURS by employers in the required
time period
4.2.4 the content of payroll reports submitted to BURS
4.2.5 that employers must report to BURS employee payments and employee
changes within the required timescale
4.2.6 the statutory time limits for submitting payroll returns and making payment to
BURS
4.2.7 the consequences of late payroll filing and / or payment

-- 98 of 108 --

102
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses 2025
5 Report information within the organisation
5.1 Communicating information on VAT and payroll related matters
Learners need to understand:
5.1.1 who to report relevant information
to
5.1.2 when a query is beyond current
experience or expertise and so
should be referred to a line
manager
5.1.3 the significant effect on cash flows
and cash budgeting of the
requirements to make payments
on time to BURS.
Learners need to be able to:
5.1.4 communicate the appropriate time
limits for submitting returns and
making payments to appropriate
persons
5.1.5 communicate the effects of new
legislation to the appropriate person
5.1.6 provide appropriate information for
VAT:
- the completion of the VAT return
- the discovery of current and
previous period errors and
omissions
- determining whether to correct or
disclose errors and omissions
- penalties, interest and
assessments
- the effects of a change in VAT rate
or other regulatory changes
- the effect on VAT of a change in
business operations
5.1.7 provide appropriate information for
payroll:
- the completion of payroll reports
- penalties
- the effects of regulatory changes.
5.2 Legislation, regulation, guidance and codes of practice
Learners need to understand:
5.2.1 where to find information regarding changes to VAT and payroll law and
practice
5.2.2 the importance of seeking authorisation before returns are submitted
5.2.3 the relevance of data protection, information security and confidentiality to VAT
and payroll practice
5.2.4 the importance of maintaining up to date and relevant knowledge
5.2.5 the importance of ethical behaviour in relation to VAT and payroll
5.2.6 the importance of updating any accounting software regarding changes to VAT
and payroll legislation
5.2.7 the importance of acting in good faith and exercising care in relation to facts or
information presented on behalf of clients or employers when dealing with
BURS, according to the AAT Code of Professional Ethics.

-- 99 of 108 --

103
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses 2025
Delivering this unit
To deliver this unit effectively, tutors must have up to date knowledge of the areas of tax
covered and how processes may be automated using accounting software. Although the
use of specific accounting software is not covered in this unit, having an understanding
and using examples of the types of reports produced by different accounting systems and
for different types of businesses would be helpful.
An emphasis should be placed on understanding the sources of data used to produce
reports in accounting systems and confirming their accuracy by applying and
understanding the rules and regulations of BURS. Knowledge must be updated regularly,
and the unit should be taught alongside the relevant extracts from the AAT Reference
Material.
Wherever possible, students should be encouraged to have direct work experience in the
preparation, completion and submission of VAT returns and payroll reports. The use of
simulated activities based on real workplace scenarios would be helpful. Tutors should
use examples of documents such as invoices, receipts, payslips and annual returns to aid
the understanding for students, whilst complying with confidentiality, security and data
protection principles. Using examples of businesses who have carried out processes
incorrectly, as well as those who have carried out processes in the correct way, will
emphasise the penalty charges and the importance of timely, accurate and complete
reporting.
Tutors should illustrate the importance of budgeting and cash flow requirements when
calculating VAT and payroll payments. This could be delivered alongside topic areas
within Management Accounting Techniques.
Links with other units
This unit links with the following units:
• Level 3 Business Awareness
• Level 3 Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements
• Level 3 Management Accounting Techniques.

-- 100 of 108 --

104
Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses 2025
Test specification for Botswana Tax Processes for Businesses unit assessment
Please refer to the latest Qualification Technical Information (QTI) for specific
legislation that will apply to assessments. Details can be accessed at
aat.org.uk/training/qualifications/2022/resources
Assessment method Marking type Duration of assessment
Computer based
assessment
Computer marked 1 hour 30 minutes
Learning outcomes Weighting
1. Understand legislation requirements relating to VAT 25%
2. Calculate VAT 30%
3. Review and verify VAT returns 20%
4. Understand principles of payroll 15%
5. Report information within the organisation 10%
Total 100%

-- 101 of 108 --

105
Delivering AAT Qualifications
12. Delivering AAT qualifications
12.1 Staff requirements
AAT requires that all staff who deliver AAT qualifications, including tutors, assessors and
verifiers, are professionally competent to do so.
If a training provider wishes to claim recognition of prior learning (RPL) for a student, the
staff must hold the relevant assessor and/or Internal Verifier (IV) qualifications.
For more information on assessing RPL and the role and qualifications required for
assessors and/or IVs, please refer to the AAT Code of practice for approved training providers
and AAT Guidance for training providers documents available through MyAAT at
aat.org.uk/support/quality-assurance/resources
12.2 Training provider and assessment venue approval
Training providers must be approved by AAT to offer these qualifications. To apply to
become an AAT Approved training provider, email trainingproviders@aat.org.uk with the
following information:
• full name of organisation
• full postal address, including postcode
• landline telephone number
• website address – this must be a live, fully functioning website
• other awarding bodies with which the organisation is accredited.
When AAT has received this information, an account manager will set up a meeting and
discuss the criteria needed for approval. Only applications that meet AAT’s high standards
will be approved.
Existing training providers who wish to offer the qualification(s) should apply through the
qualification approval section under online centre services, which can be found under the
MyAAT login. Please note that only the training provider’s main contact can apply for
qualification approval.
Some organisations will not wish to become AAT Approved training providers but may be
interested in administering AAT assessments by becoming an approved assessment
venue. To apply to become an AAT Approved assessment venue, email
assessment.venues@aat.org.uk with the following information:
• the full address of the proposed venue
• any experience in administering computer-based assessments.
AAT will evaluate whether a venue meets the minimum hardware and software
requirements, is a suitable environment for delivering assessments and has the staff to run
assessments successfully. A representative from AAT will conduct a visit before approval is
granted.

-- 102 of 108 --

106
Delivering AAT Qualifications
12.3 Quality assurance
AAT monitors training providers to ensure their continued compliance with the AAT
approval criteria, the AAT Code of practice for approved training providers and appropriate
regulatory requirements.
All training providers have an allocated point of contact and will be subject to a range of
quality assurance activities (including visits, remote activities, self-assessment and thematic
reviews) to ensure that quality standards are being met. The frequency of quality assurance
activities will depend on a number of factors, including the level of risk associated with the
provider’s experience in delivering AAT qualifications and/or the outcomes of previous
quality assurance activities. If a centre has been delivering assessments using RPL, AAT
may also ask for particular information and/or documents to be made available so that
sampling can be carried out.
Training providers will receive a report following on from any quality assurance activity from
AAT, which will identify any actions that are to be addressed.
AAT may apply an action plan with deadlines and/or a sanction where training providers do not
meet the requirements set out in the AAT Code of practice for approved training providers, which
may be accessed via MyAAT at aat.org.uk/assessments/training-providers/quality-assurance
Sanctions will be applied at training provider level and will take the following form:
• Level 1: Action plan imposed
• Level 2: Suspension of the right to claim certification
• Level 3: Suspension of the right to register students, schedule assessments and
claim certification.
Where AAT considers that there is an irretrievable breakdown in the management and
quality assurance of the delivery of specified qualifications, AAT will withdraw training
provider approval.

-- 103 of 108 --

13. Equality and diversity 107
13. Equality and diversity
AAT firmly believes in equality of opportunity for all who participate in its qualifications. As
well as our commitment to the Equality Act 2010, we aim to ensure that:
• our qualifications are free from barriers that restrict access and progression
• our qualifications are attainable by all who can demonstrate the required standard by
whatever means
• our qualifications, publications and procedures are free from discriminatory practices
or stereotypes with regards to age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and
civil partnerships, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sexual
orientation, caring responsibilities, and part-time working. Assessment tasks and
study opportunities are sufficiently varied and flexible to ensure that no particular
group of students or would-be students are placed at any disadvantage
• all reasonable adjustments are made to cater for the individual requirements of
students
• assessments are valid and reliable to ensure that all students receive impartial
treatment.
We do this by:
• considering issues of diversity and equality as part of the development process
• avoiding the creation of barriers that might disadvantage those students who share
one or more protected characteristics
• consulting with students (or their representatives)
• collecting data for monitoring and evaluation
• providing additional information at aat.org.uk/about/what-we-do/responsible-
business-strategy
13.1 Reasonable adjustments
A reasonable adjustment is an arrangement that can be put in place by AAT or the
assessment centre prior to an assessment to help students with a long-term disability, such
as dyslexia, or who are temporarily impaired, such as a student who has broken their arm, to
do their best. For example, this could mean applying extra time for dyslexic students or
allowing the use of a scribe for a student with a broken arm.
In most cases, it should be possible for the assessment centre to make the decision to grant
adjustments and notify AAT before scheduling the assessment: for example, granting extra
time up to and including one-third of the available time as published for that assessment.
However, if a more significant adjustment is needed, assessment centres may need to
obtain approval from AAT first.
Further information about reasonable adjustments and the procedures for notification and
approval are given in the Guidance on the Application of Reasonable Adjustments and
Special Considerations in AAT assessments available through MyAAT at
aat.org.uk/assessments/students/preparing/reasonable-adjustments-special-
consideration

-- 104 of 108 --

13. Equality and diversity 108
13.2 Special consideration
Special consideration is a process that takes account of a student’s circumstances, for
example a temporary illness or injury, or some other event outside of the student’s control,
at or shortly before the time of assessment, which could have had an effect on the student’s
ability to take the assessment. The process entails a review of the student’s performance in
the assessment and, if appropriate, the application of a small mark adjustment to
compensate, as far as possible, for the difficulties that they might have experienced.
Further information about special consideration and the procedure that must be followed in
notifying AAT is given in the Guidance on the Application of Reasonable Adjustments and
Special Consideration in AAT assessments available through MyAAT at
aat.org.uk/assessment/adjustments-and-considerations

-- 105 of 108 --

109	14. Support for training providers
14. Support for training providers
14.1 Centre Support team
The Centre Support team is dedicated to helping training providers with the daily running
of AAT qualifications. The team also offers one-to-one support for new training providers
to help them get their AAT qualifications up and running.
Phone: +44 (0)203 3735 2443
Email: Partner.support@aat.org.uk
14.2 Partner Account Manager (PAM)
Each training provider has their own Partner Account Manager (PAM) assigned to support
them once they have been approved as an AAT training provider. PAMs help provide
links to local employers and visit regularly to keep training providers up to date on
qualification developments, apprenticeships and possible commercial opportunities.
14.3 Weekly email update from AAT – SummingUp
Every Friday, SummingUp shares all the latest news from AAT with AAT Approved
training providers, including:
• technical updates
• qualification developments
• upcoming events
• new e-learning materials
• the latest marketing materials.
14.4 Events for training providers
Tutors have the opportunity to attend the following events throughout the year.
Annual conference
The annual training provider conference is a chance to get together, network and share
ideas. The conference typically includes:
• topical workshops
• guest speaker sessions
• the opportunity to learn about new developments directly from AAT.

-- 106 of 108 --

110	14. Support for training providers
Network meetings
At these events, training providers can raise queries, share best practice and ideas with
AAT and other training providers. The events:
• cover a wide range of topics
• keep tutors up to date on the latest issues
• provide relevant and cost-effective CPD.
Technical events (tutor-to-tutor sessions)
These events are free of charge to training providers and cover a range of our
qualifications and assessment areas. Experienced and high-performing training providers
share their experiences, tips and techniques with attendees to help others improve their
teaching and delivery.
14.5 Tutor talk forum
All AAT Approved training providers have access to Tutor talk, where tutors can
contribute to online conversations about a wide range of AAT issues. Tutors will
receive:
• unlimited user logins for all AAT tutors
• email updates on posts they are interested in.
14.6 Online support resources
In order to help tutors deliver AAT qualifications, a range of support materials are offered
for all AAT qualifications, such as:
• practice assessments
• tutor workbooks
• recorded webinars
• videos
• podcasts
• training materials
• green light tests for all AAT units.
All tutor support materials can be found on the Lifelong Learning Portal.

-- 107 of 108 --

Copyright © 2023 AAT
All rights reserved. Reproduction is permitted for personal and educational use only. No
part of this content may be reproduced or transmitted for commercial use without the
copyright holder’s written consent.
The Association of Accounting Technicians
30 Churchill Place
London
E14 5RE
t: +44 (0)20 3735 2468
f: +44 (0)20 7397 3009
e: aat@aat.org.uk

-- 108 of 108 --

