Qualification Number: 603/6338/1 
Qualification Specification 
Version 5.4 published May 2025 

 
Updates to this specification 

Since first publication of the Level 2 Certificate in Accounting, the following areas of 
the qualification specification have been updated. 

Version 

Date first published 

What has been updated 

   Version 5.5 

24 September 2025 

  Version 5.4 

14 May 2025 

Updated information and links on the following 
paragraphs: 
About AAT 
Ethics: we set and raise standards 
Student Registration: Support every step of the 
way 
Test specification for Introduction to 
Bookkeeping   unit assessment – link updated 

Updates made to reflect change to Partner 
Support / Partner Account Manager 

  Version 5.3 

10 January 2025 

Section 5: RPL statement updated  

Version 5.2 

24 July 2024 

Version 5.1 

15 April 2024 

Section 9: Removal of synoptic windows 
statement 

Section 11: Units (Removal of PCTN pre 15 
April 2024) 

Version 5.0 

8 March 2024 

Section 5 (update to RPL statement) 

Version 4.2 

11 January 2023 

Section 11: Units (Changes to PCTN in effect 
from 15 April 2024) 

Version 4.1 

06 July 2023 

Section 9.7: clarification of re-sit restrictions. 

Version 4.0 

09 January 2023 

Section 11: Units (clarification to The Business 
Environment LO4.1, 4.3) 

Version 3.1 

10 June 2022 

Version 3.0 

21 January 2022 

Version 2.1 

24 September 2021 

Version 2.0 

23 April 2021 

Removal of tracked changes throughout 
document.  

Qualification go-live date 
Qualification technical information – see 
updated Level 2 document (PDF) 
Section 5.5 / 6.1: Inclusion of dedicated 
webpage to the RPL and exemptions policy 

Section 11: Units (additions / omissions 
highlighted in red) 

Section 9.6: Results 
Section 10: Grading 
Section 11: Units (additions / omissions 
highlighted in blue) 

Updates to this specification 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version 1.0 

1 September 2020 

First publication 

This qualification is approved and regulated by: 

• 

the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation (Ofqual) in England and 
internationally 
the Council for the Curriculum, Examinations and Assessment (CCEA) in Northern Ireland 

• 
•  Qualifications Wales. 

Updates to this specification 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
Contents 

Updates to this specification .................................................................................................. 2 

Contents.................................................................................................................................... 4 

1.  About AAT ....................................................................................................................... 5 

2.  Ethics: we set and raise standards ............................................................................. 6 

3.  Student registration: support every step of the way ................................................. 7 

4.  Choosing to study the AAT Level 2 Certificate in Accounting ................................ 8 

5.  About the AAT Level 2 Certificate in Accounting .................................................... 11 

6.  Exemptions ................................................................................................................... 13 

7.  Employer involvement ................................................................................................. 14 

8.  Support for this qualification ....................................................................................... 15 

9. 

The assessment in detail ............................................................................................ 16 

10. 

11. 

Grading ...................................................................................................................... 19 

Units ........................................................................................................................... 23 

Introduction to Bookkeeping ................................................................................................ 25 

Principles of Bookkeeping Controls ................................................................................... 37 

Principles of Costing ............................................................................................................. 45 

The Business Environment .................................................................................................. 55 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

Synoptic assessment specification ........................................................................ 66 

Delivering AAT qualifications .................................................................................. 69 

Equality and diversity ............................................................................................... 71 

Support for training providers ................................................................................. 73 

Contents 

4 

 
 
 
 
1. About AAT 

AAT is a trusted brand for quality-assured accountancy qualifications across the globe, 
working with students and members, and partnering with AAT-approved training providers. 
We also have licensed members throughout the UK. Our members are represented at 
every level of the finance and accounting world, including students studying for a career in 
finance, people already working in accountancy and self-employed business owners. To 
find out more about us and our impact, please visit aat.org.uk/about/what-we-do 

AAT members are ambitious, focused accounting professionals. Many of our members 
occupy senior, well rewarded positions with thousands of employers – from blue-chip 
corporate giants to public sector institutions. 

AAT qualifications are universally respected and internationally recognised. Organisations 
hire AAT qualified members for their knowledge, skills, diligence and enthusiasm because 
AAT represents the highest standards of professionalism. 

In short, an AAT qualification is a route to some of the most in-demand skills in the world 
and provides our students and members with a professional status to be proud of. 

Find out more about AAT  

1. About AAT 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Ethics: we set and raise standards 

AAT is about more than qualifications. AAT is recognised and respected as a professional 
membership body by a wide range of businesses. We require our members to take a 
professional and ethical approach throughout their accountancy and finance careers. 

It is because of our exceptionally high standards and the professionalism of our members 
that AAT members are so highly regarded. This is a benefit to us as a professional body 
and to our members. 

We publish the AAT Code of Professional Ethics, which sets out a code of fundamental 
ethical principles and supporting guidance, and is based on the IFAC Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants. The decisions that an accounting technician makes in the course 
of their professional life can have real ethical implications, and this is where the Code can 
help. It: 

•  sets out the required standards of professional behaviour with guidance to help 

our members achieve them 

•  helps our members to protect the public interest 
•  helps our members to maintain AAT’s good reputation and public confidence. 

To reflect the realities of the workplace, we have embedded ethical dilemmas and decision 
making throughout the content of AAT’s qualifications and assessments. This will help to 
set our students on the right path as they embark on careers as accountancy or finance 
professionals. 

2. Ethics: we set and raise standards 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Student registration: support every step of the way 

Registering with AAT is essential if students wish to study an AAT qualification. Once 
students have registered and purchased access to their desired qualification, they will be 
able to:  

•  sit AAT assessments 
•  access AAT support resources to supplement the qualification learning and aid 

career progression.  

AAT registration is a one-off fee, giving students access to the purchased qualification for 
the lifespan of the qualification. Additional fees will apply for sitting AAT assessments.  

We support and develop our students through AAT Approved training providers across the 
world. We also have an extensive branch network where students can access support and 
training and meet other AAT students and professional members in their local area. 

Prospective students wishing to register for the AAT Level 2 Certificate in Accounting can do 
so at aat.org.uk/register/student  

Students are advised to register with an AAT Approved training provider before registering 
with AAT. On registration, an email confirming registration and AAT registration number will 
be sent. 

Find out more about the benefits of registering 
with AAT 

3. Student registration: support every step of the way 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 2 Certificate 

in Accounting 

4.1  Who should choose to study this qualification? 

The Level 2 Certificate in Accounting is ideal for anyone wishing to study accountancy and 
finance alongside a range of complementary business and personal skills. 

The purpose of the Level 2 Certificate in Accounting is to offer the foundation accounting 
knowledge needed to progress to employment or further study in accountancy and finance, 
alongside business and personal skills that are transferable to any sector and additional 
business knowledge relevant to accountancy. The qualification offers a broader focus 
across several subject areas which enhances employability and is particularly suitable for 
young people studying full-time. 

4.2  Why choose this qualification? 

Students should choose the Level 2 Certificate in Accounting if they’re interested in 
developing transferable business and personal skills alongside their core accountancy 
skills. This qualification may also be valuable for those entering the workplace for the first 
time or for those changing careers who would like additional support in upskilling to enter, 
or re-enter, a business environment.  

In developing this qualification, AAT has carried out extensive consultation with and 
received input from a wide variety of stakeholders, including industry experts, employers 
and training providers. AAT qualifications benefit from being globally recognised and 
they’re valued by leading employers, from small high street firms to large accountancy 
businesses. They offer students flexible study options, with over 500 AAT Approved 
training providers around the world. 

4.3  What does the qualification cover? 

The Level 2 Certificate in Accounting covers a broad range of core accounting skills, as 
well as accountancy-related business skills and personal skills. Key themes have also 
been introduced throughout the suite of accounting qualifications, including technology, 
ethics, sustainability and communication. 

This qualification comprises four mandatory units (255 guided learning hours in total): 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

• 
•  Principles of Bookkeeping Controls 
•  Principles of Costing 
•  The Business Environment. 

Working in accountancy requires good communication skills, information technology (IT) 
skills and an understanding of the business environment, as well as an understanding of 
daily finance/accounting functions. The purpose of this qualification is to ensure that 
students are well rounded and well prepared to progress into a career in business, finance 
or professional accountancy, or into further education. 

4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 2 Certificate in Accounting 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A student completing this qualification will develop accountancy skills in double-entry 
bookkeeping and basic costing, as well as an understanding of purchase, sales and 
general ledgers. Students will learn an understanding of accounting software and develop 
the professional skills and behaviours needed to contribute effectively in the workplace. 
Working in accountancy requires good communication skills, IT skills and an understanding 
of the business environment, all of which are covered by this qualification.  

The qualification develops additional business skills that have particular relevance to those 
working in accountancy, finance and general business roles. Students are introduced to 
elements of commercial law that might have an impact on them when working in 
accountancy, such as contract law, employment law and company law. In addition, 
students will further develop their business communication and personal skills and will learn 
how to manage their personal and professional development through lifelong learning. 

Three units are assessed individually in end-of-unit assessments. This qualification also 
includes a synoptic assessment that draws on and assesses knowledge and understanding 
from across a number of units. 

4.4  What will this qualification lead to? 

The accountancy and business skills developed by studying this qualification will enable a 
student to seek employment with confidence and/or to progress to the next level of 
learning. 

A student completing this qualification will develop skills in double-entry bookkeeping and 
will understand how to use journals, control accounts and a trial balance. Students will also 
gain an understanding of accounting software packages, how to process financial 
information in accordance with company procedures and schedules, and how to provide 
information to colleagues, suppliers and/or customers as required.  

Skills developed through this qualification could lead to employment as: 

•  an Accounts Administrator 
•  an Accounts Assistant 
•  an Accounts Payable Clerk 
•  a Purchase/Sales Ledger Clerk  
•  a Trainee Accounting Technician 
•  a Trainee Finance Assistant. 

The accountancy and finance knowledge developed in this qualification is also the 
underpinning knowledge needed for the higher-level accountancy and financial skills 
developed in the Level 3 Diploma in Accounting and the Level 4 Diploma in Professional 
Accounting. For example, double-entry bookkeeping at Level 2 is the basis for Financial 
Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements (Level 3), which leads on to Drafting and 
Interpreting Financial Statements (Level 4).   

4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 2 Certificate in Accounting 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5  Is this part of an apprenticeship? 

The Level 2 Certificate in Accounting is included as a recognised qualification for students 
to demonstrate competence as part of gateway requirements for the Accounts/Finance 
Assistant apprenticeship.  

AAT understands that not everyone can access an apprenticeship. In these cases, there 
are compelling reasons to choose to take this high-quality qualification, which is valued 
because of its track record of delivering successful employment outcomes outside of the 
apprenticeship. AAT has many examples of unemployed and career-change students of all 
ages who have gained employment directly as a result of achieving this qualification.

4. Choosing to study the AAT Level 2 Certificate in Accounting 

10 

 
 
 
 
5. About the AAT Level 2 Certificate in Accounting 

Qualification name 

AAT Level 2 Certificate in Accounting 

Qualification number 

603/6338/1 

Level 

Guided learning hours (GLH) 

Total qualification time (TQT) 

2 

255 

340 

5.1  Guided learning hours (GLH) value 

The total GLH value for the Level 2 Certificate in Accounting is 255 hours. 

The GLH value for a qualification is an estimate of the amount of time a student spends 
learning under the supervision of a teacher or tutor. This might include lectures, tutorials or 
supervised study carried out either face-to-face or remotely. Time spent by tutors, teachers or 
external experts assessing student performance is also included. It doesn’t include time that 
students spend on unsupervised preparation or study. 

The GLH value is set and recommended as appropriate by AAT, but some students may need 
more or less support to achieve the qualification. The GLH value is not a compulsory measure 
for all students. Training providers have the flexibility to offer the qualification in the hours 
required by their own students, within the constraints of any funded provision requirements. 

5.2  Total qualification time (TQT) value 

The TQT value for the Level 2 Certificate in Accounting is 340 hours. 

The TQT value is also a measure of how long it takes to complete a qualification, but it 
includes both GLH and unsupervised learning. 

Any independent study time or any additional work by the student that is directed by, but not 
under the supervision of, a tutor is included in the TQT value. This might include working 
through e-learning at home or time spent on independent research. 

5.3  Are there any prerequisites for this qualification?  

AAT does not set any entry requirements for this qualification. 

However, for the best chance of success, we recommend that students begin their studies 
with a good standard of English and maths. Accountants work at the very heart of a business 
and are expected to be able to communicate information clearly and appropriately to a given 
audience.  

AAT recommends that students use AAT Skillcheck to ensure that they’re ready to start on a 
particular qualification. 

5. About the AAT Level 2 Certificate in Accounting 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.4  Will current students be able to transfer their results onto this qualification to 

complete their studies?  

Students who have already started an AAT qualification should try to complete their studies 
on their current programme where possible. 

If this is not possible, transitional arrangements may be available. In some cases, students 
may be able to transfer results for current units to similar units in an updated qualification, 
although this will be strictly time-limited. 

It’s important to check for the latest information to see if transitional arrangements apply. You 
can find out more in the transitional arrangements PDF here aat.org.uk/files/AAT-AQ2016-
Q2022-transitional-arrangements.pdf 

5.5  Recognition of prior learning (RPL) 

If a student can demonstrate that they already have the knowledge and skills to meet the 
requirements for a unit assessment, they may be eligible for RPL. This must be arranged 
through a registered AAT training provider and mapping of the student’s skills and knowledge 
must be uploaded to AAT’s assessment platform.  

RPL is planned to be made available from mid-20225. Please refer to the AAT RPL Policy for 
full details on restrictions and the process. There are restrictions on the number of units that 
may be claimed by RPL to ensure that at least 50% of the qualification will always be 
externally assessed. Where RPL is successfully claimed for a unit assessment, the student 
will be given a pass mark for that assessment and this mark will be used in determining the 
final qualification grade. In order to achieve a higher mark, the student must sit a standard 
assessment instead.  

It is not possible to claim RPL for the synoptic assessment. This assessment must be 
completed and passed in order for the student to be awarded this qualification. More details 
on RPL can be found in the AQ2016 to Q2022 Transitional Arrangements (PDF) document at 
AAT-AQ2016-Q2022-transitional-arrangements.pdf and the dedicated RPL and 
exemptions webpage at aat.org.uk/qualifications-and-courses/exemptions-recognition-
prior-learning 

5. About the AAT Level 2 Certificate in Accounting 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Exemptions 

6.1  Exemptions from AAT assessments 

Exemptions may be offered to students who can provide evidence of gaining a previous, 
relevant qualification. If eligible, students may be exempt from sitting some AAT 
assessments. Fees will be charged for exemptions. 

For this qualification, no exemption can be claimed for the synoptic assessment or for units 
that are assessed only via the synoptic assessment. There are restrictions on the number of 
units that may be claimed by exemption to ensure that at least 50% of the qualification will 
always be externally assessed. Where an exemption is successfully claimed for a unit 
assessment, the student will be given a pass mark for that assessment and this mark will be 
used in determining the final qualification grade. In order to achieve a higher mark, the 
assessment must be taken as normal.  

More details on exemptions can be found in the AQ2016 to Q2022 Transitional 
Arrangements (PDF) and the dedicated exemptions and RPL webpage at 
aat.org.uk/qualifications-and-courses/exemptions-recognition-prior-learning 

6.2  Exemptions from chartered accountancy bodies 

For students who wish to become chartered accountants, the study of AAT qualifications 
may also offer exemptions from the exams required by a range of chartered accountancy 
bodies. Full details on exemptions from chartered accountancy bodies can be found at 
aat.org.uk/membership/professional-membership/reduced-membership-chartered

6. Exemptions 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Employer involvement 

AAT qualifications are recognised and valued by employers as vocational and technical 
qualifications that prepare students for the world of work and for working specifically in 
accountancy and finance roles. 

7.1  Employer involvement in development and assessment 

AAT has worked closely with employers in the development of this qualification to ensure 
that the qualification demands the skills that an employer would expect of a student at this 
level. 

Employers also contribute to the development of the live materials used to assess students 
on completion of their study. Employer involvement in the assessment of this qualification 
includes reviewing and editing the synoptic assessments and scenarios used to ensure 
that they reflect realistic working practices and environments. 

Training providers offering this qualification to 16 – 19 year olds, registered in England, 
may be required to prepare an employer engagement action plan. Requirements specified 
by the Department for Education will be confirmed as soon as possible. 

8. Support for this qualification 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. Support for this qualification 

8.1  AAT qualification support 

Throughout the life of this qualification, AAT will make available a range of free materials 
and resources to support tutors and students in delivery and assessment. 

Materials produced for this qualification will include: 

•  practice assessments for each unit 
•  one Sample Assessment and Mark Scheme (Introduction to Bookkeeping) 
•  Qualification Technical Information (QTI) 
•  annual Chief Examiner reports.  

Additional materials may also include:  

•  e-learning 
•  Green Light tests 
•  webinars 
• 

tutor-to-tutor sessions at network meetings. 

All AAT study support resources can be accessed via the AAT Lifelong Learning Portal. 

8.2  Published materials 

A number of commercial publishers produce support materials for AAT qualifications. While 
AAT ensures that commercial publishers have the information, they need to produce 
materials in good time to support the qualifications, AAT does not formally endorse any 
specific publisher and it does not review publishers’ materials for accuracy. 

Tutors are reminded to always refer to the unit content within this specification for what to 
teach and what will be assessed and to refer to a range of support materials where 
possible. While published materials can offer excellent support and variety in teaching and 
learning, they should not be used without reference to this specification. 

8. Support for this qualification 

15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. The assessment in detail 

9.1  How will students be assessed? 

Students must successfully achieve the three mandatory unit assessments and one 
synoptic assessment to achieve this qualification. The proportion of this qualification 
assessed by externally marked assessment is 100%. 

All assessments in this qualification: 

•  are set and marked by AAT (with the exception of RPL, which is marked by the 

training provider) 
•  are computer based 
•  are time-limited 
•  are scheduled by training providers or assessment venues 
• 

take place at approved training providers and assessment venues under 
controlled conditions. 

9.2  Availability of assessments 

All assessments are available to be scheduled on demand throughout the year.   

Students should only be scheduled for the synoptic assessment once all other required 
units that contribute to the synoptic assessment have been scheduled. 

9.3  Controlled conditions 

AAT has published detailed regulations for training providers and assessment venues 
regarding how to conduct computer based assessments. 

Training providers and assessment venues must ensure that they comply with the minimum 
and supporting requirements for the hardware and software used in the delivery of AAT 
assessments and must ensure that all assessments are delivered securely. 

Each training provider and assessment venue must have at least one computer based 
assessment (CBA) administrator and at least one invigilator. Training providers and 
assessment venues must ensure that all assessments are invigilated and conducted in 
accordance with AAT policies and procedures. To avoid any possible conflict of interest, the 
CBA administrator(s) and invigilator(s) for an assessment must not be an active AAT 
student or related to any student taking that assessment, and must not be or have been a 
tutor involved in preparing students for any of the units that are being assessed.  

AAT requirements and regulations for how to conduct assessments within this qualification 
will be detailed in an updated version of the Instructions for conducting AAT computer 
based assessments (CBAs) guidance document. This will be hosted on a dedicated 
assessment support webpage for Qualifications 2022.  

9. The assessment in detail 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.4  Sitting the assessment 

The assessments in this qualification are computer based, with a time restriction. Details on 
assessment duration for each unit has been included in Section 11: Units. 

Students will be presented with a range of question types and formats in the assessment. 
These may include multiple-choice questions, numeric gap-fill questions, or question tools 
that replicate workplace activities such as making entries in a journal. In the synoptic 
assessment, some tasks will require written extended responses. While tasks generally do 
not have to be completed in a specific order, students are encouraged to proceed through 
them in the order in which they are presented. 

Students should familiarise themselves with the CBA environment, assessment platform 
software and some of the question styles that they might encounter in the exam by using 
the practice assessment materials provided by AAT. Registered students may access the 
Lifelong Learning Portal and practice assessment materials through MyAAT. 

9.5  Marking 

Assessments in this qualification are marked by AAT, with the exception of RPL, and may 
be either: 

•  wholly computer marked 
•  partially computer marked and partially human marked. 

Computer marking is completed within the assessment software in accordance with an 
objective marking scheme devised during assessment development. Human marking is 
conducted by a team of markers, with appropriate subject matter knowledge, who are 
appointed by AAT.  

Markers use mark schemes devised during assessment development. 

Assessments undergo regular quality assurance, which includes: 

•  standardisation of markers 
•  sampling for marking consistency 
review of borderline scripts. 
• 

9. The assessment in detail 

17 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.6  Results 

Results for computer marked assessments are made available via MyAAT within 24 hours 
of submitting the assessment. Results for the synoptic assessment will be made available 
within six weeks of the last day of the synoptic window. 

Students will be advised on what percentage of the marks available they achieved in their 
assessments. 

AAT’s feedback service provides a simple summary of students’ performance in each 
assessment. The feedback statement confirms their overall result and a breakdown of 
performance by task. Students will also be able to see marks available and marks achieved 
against each task position.  

Feedback statements are automatically generated and are designed to help students 
identify their strengths and any topic areas requiring further study. The student is presented 
with a short descriptor for each task to describe their performance in that task against the 
topics assessed. There are four feedback descriptors. Each descriptor provides an 
indication of how the student has performed in that task and includes generic advice on 
how to proceed with their studies or continuing professional development (CPD). 

9.7  Re-sits 

Students should only be entered for an assessment when they are well prepared, and they 
are expected to pass the assessment. Where a student is unsuccessful in an assessment 
attempt, they should discuss their results with their tutor and revise appropriately before 
retaking the assessment. 

This qualification is not subject to re-sit restrictions. 

9.8  Enquiries and appeals 

If the student thinks that their assessment outcome does not reflect their performance, they 
can submit an enquiry. Full details of the process can be found on AAT’s dedicated 
webpage aat.org.uk/assessments/students/results/enquiries-appeals. AAT’s results 
enquiry service includes a check of all procedures leading to the issue of the outcome, 
checking that all parts of the assessment were marked, that the marks were totalled 
correctly and that the marks were recorded correctly. Students may also request to have 
the original marking reviewed, to check that the agreed mark scheme was applied correctly. 

The appeals process can be followed if a student is not satisfied with the outcome of their 
enquiry or Malpractice Review Panel (MRP) decision. The appeals process checks all 
aspects of the original enquiry review or MRP hearing and checks that all AAT procedures 
have been correctly followed. 

Enquiries and appeals can be made by a student or by their training provider or employer 
on their behalf; enquiries and appeals for a group of students can also be made by a 
training provider.  

There is an administrative fee for enquiries and appeals. All paid fees will be refunded if the 
outcome of the enquiry or appeal is in favour of the student.

9. The assessment in detail 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Grading 

To achieve the qualification and to be awarded a grade, a student must pass all 
mandatory unit assessments and the synoptic assessment. 

Students will be awarded a grade based on performance across the qualification. Unit 
assessments are not individually graded. These assessments are given a mark that is used 
in calculating the overall grade. 

10.1   How the overall grade is determined 

Students will be awarded an overall qualification grade (Distinction, Merit, and Pass).  

Students who do not achieve the qualification will not receive a qualification certificate and 
will be shown as unclassified. This is indicated below for illustrative purposes only. 

The raw marks of each assessment will be converted into a percentage mark and rounded 
up or down to the nearest whole number. For example, 75.5% would be rounded up to 
76%, whereas 82.1% would be rounded down to 82%. This percentage mark is then 
weighted according to the weighting of the unit assessment within the qualification. The 
resulting weighted assessment percentages are combined to arrive at a percentage mark 
for the whole qualification. 

Grade definition 

Percentage threshold 

Distinction 

90–100% 

Merit 

Pass 

80–89% 

70–79% 

Unclassified 

0–69% Or failure to pass one or more assessment/s 

11. Units 

19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Example of Pass 

Assessment 

Contribution of 
assessment to 
qualification 
grade 

Percentage 
achieved 

Weighted percentage 
contribution to grade 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

Principles of Bookkeeping 
Controls 

Principles of Costing 

25% 

25% 

76% 

72% 

19% 

18% 

20% 

81% 

16.2% 

The Business Environment 
Synoptic assessment 

30% 

77% 

Total 

*has been rounded to nearest whole number 

23.1% 

76*% 

Example of Merit 

Assessment 

Contribution of 
assessment to 
qualification 
grade 

Percentage 
achieved 

Weighted percentage 
contribution to grade 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

Principles of Bookkeeping 
Controls 

Principles of Costing 

25% 

25% 

86% 

81% 

21.5% 

20.3% 

20% 

75% 

15% 

The Business Environment 
Synoptic assessment 

30% 

91% 

Total 

*has been rounded to nearest whole number 

11. Units 

27.3% 

84%* 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Example of Distinction 

Assessment 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

Principles of Bookkeeping 
Controls 

Principles of Costing 

The Business Environment 
Synoptic assessment 

Contribution of 
assessment to 
qualification 
grade 

Percentage 
achieved 

Weighted percentage 
contribution to grade 

25% 

25% 

87% 

92% 

21.8% 

23% 

20% 

98% 

19.6% 

30% 

86% 

25.8% 

Total 

90%* 

*has been rounded to nearest whole number 

10.2  Can students improve their grades? 

Any student wishing to improve their grade can do so by re-sitting their assessment(s). 

Only a student’s highest result will count towards their grade. If a student re-sits but, in 
doing  so,  achieves  an  assessment  result  that  would  lower  their  overall  grade,  their 
previous higher result will remain valid and will be used to determine their overall grade 
for the qualification. 

It’s important to recognise that students achieving a Pass are already demonstrating a 
high level of competence, as AAT maintains a pass mark of 70% across all 
assessments. 

11. Units 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.3  Grading descriptors 

Pass 

Merit 

Distinction 

Demonstrates some 
knowledge of the purpose, 
roles and responsibilities of 
a finance function and the 
legal context in which it 
operates. 

Demonstrates good  
knowledge of the purpose, roles 
and responsibilities of a finance 
function and the legal context in 
which it operates. 

Demonstrates sound  
knowledge of the purpose, roles 
and responsibilities of a finance 
function and the legal context in 
which it operates. 

Understands the impact of the 
individual, and of a finance 
team, on business operations. 

Considers in detail the impact of 
individuals, and of a finance 
team, on business operations. 

Processes a range of 
accounting transactions and 
understands the automation of 
transactions through use of 
accounting software.  

Processes a range of accounting 
transactions with a high level of 
accuracy and understands the 
automation of transactions 
through use of accounting 
software.  

Processes a wide range of 
accounting transactions with a 
high level of accuracy and 
understands the automation of 
transactions through use of 
accounting software. 

Extracts relevant costing 
information and has a basic 
understanding of how this 
information can be used to 
compare performance 
against budget. 

Extracts and combines relevant 
costing information and has a 
good understanding of how this 
information can be used to 
compare performance against 
budget. 

Extracts and combines relevant 
costing information and has a 
thorough understanding of how 
this information can be used to 
compare performance against 
budget. 

Prepares and reconciles 
ledgers and accounts, 
making necessary 
adjustments. 

Prepares and reconciles 
ledgers and a range of 
accounts, making necessary 
adjustments with a good level 
of accuracy. 

Prepares and reconciles 
ledgers and a wide range of 
accounts, making necessary 
adjustments with a high level of 
accuracy. 

Performs a range of 
calculations for financial 
and management 
accounting purposes. 

Performs a range of 
calculations for financial and 
management accounting 
purposes with a good level of 
accuracy. 

Produces accurate 
information in written and/or 
numerical form that has a 
structure and  
uses appropriate business 
language. 

Produces accurate information  
in written and/or numerical 
form that is well-structured and 
uses appropriate and effective 
business language. 

Performs a wide range of 
calculations for financial and 
management accounting 
purposes with a high level of 
accuracy, interpreting findings 
where relevant. 

Produces accurate information 
in written and/or numerical form 
that is well-structured, uses 
appropriate and effective 
business language, and 
considers the needs of the 
recipient. 

11. Units 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Units 

All units in this qualification comply with the requirements set out in the Conditions of 
Recognition published by the regulators in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and follow 
a standard format. The unit specification gives guidance on the requirements of the unit for 
students, tutors, assessors and those responsible for monitoring national standards. Each 
unit contains a range of sections, as outlined below.  

Unit title 
This qualification, and its component units, is regulated. The unit title shown is the 
regulated title of the unit.  

Unit level 
All units and qualifications are assigned a level using the level descriptors that apply to 
regulated qualifications in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. There are nine levels of 
achievement, from Entry Level to Level 8. All units in this qualification are Level 2. 

GLH value 
The GLH value is defined as all the times when a tutor, trainer or facilitator is present to 
give specific guidance. This definition includes lectures, tutorials and supervised study. It 
also includes time spent by staff assessing student achievements. It does not include time 
spent by staff marking assignments or homework where the student is not present. 

Assessment methodology  
Units may be assessed by: 

•  unit assessment only 
•  unit assessment and as part of the synoptic assessment 
•  synoptic assessment only. 

Unit reference number 
This number is set by Ofqual, the independent qualifications regulator for England, and is 
unique to the unit. 

Introduction 
The unit introduction gives the reader an appreciation of the unit in the context of the 
vocational setting of the qualification, as well as highlighting the focus of the unit. It gives 
the reader a snapshot of the unit and the key knowledge, skills and understanding gained 
while studying the unit.  

Learning outcomes 
The learning outcomes of a unit set out what a student is expected to know or be able to 
do as a result of their learning. 

Scope of content 
The scope of content identifies the breadth of knowledge, skills and understanding needed 
to achieve each of the learning outcomes. The content provides the range of subject 
material for the programme of learning and specifies the skills, knowledge and 
understanding required for achievement of the unit. 

11. Units 

23 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Content structure 

•  Each learning outcome is stated in full. 
•  Topic areas specify the standard that a student is expected to meet in order to 

demonstrate that the learning outcome has been achieved. These may be shown 
as ‘Learners need to understand’ for an understanding topic area or ‘Learners 
need to be able to’ for a skills topic area. Some learning outcomes may include 
both understanding and skills elements. 

•  Each topic area is then expanded into key concepts related to that learning 

outcome. 

•  Each concept is then further expanded into indicative content where applicable. 

Relationship between content and assessment 
Students must have the opportunity to cover all the unit content. It is not a requirement of 
the unit specification that all the content is assessed. However, the indicative content will 
need to be covered in a programme of learning for students to be able to meet the 
standard determined in the scope of content. 

Delivering this unit 
This section includes guidance on how the unit content can be delivered. Tutors are 
encouraged to develop their own approach depending on the needs of their students but 
may wish to incorporate some of the ideas included. Tutors may wish to go beyond the 
scope of the content in order to aid understanding and provide context but must always 
ensure first that all required content is covered according to the depth and breadth 
indicated in the scope of content. 

Test specification for unit assessment 
The test specification for the unit assessment gives details about the assessment method, 
marking type and duration of the assessment. The contribution that each learning outcome 
makes to the overall mark for the unit assessment is also provided. 

Where a unit is not assessed by a separate unit assessment and is only assessed in the 
synoptic assessment, there will be no unit test specification included in the unit. 

11. Units 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction to Bookkeeping 

Unit 
level 

2 

GLH value 

65 

Unit reference 
number 

H/618/3583 

Assessment 

Unit and 
synoptic 
assessments 

Introduction 

This unit provides students with an understanding of manual and digital bookkeeping systems, 
including the associated documents and processes. Students will learn the basic principles that 
underpin the double-entry bookkeeping system and will learn that digital accounting systems 
are automating some of the stages in the process. 

Students will learn how to check the accuracy of invoices, credit notes, remittance advices, 
statements of account and petty cash vouchers. They will know how to use these documents to 
make entries in sales and purchases daybooks, sales and purchases returns daybooks, and 
discounts allowed and received daybooks using account codes, as well as how to transfer 
those totals to the sales, purchases and general ledgers. They will learn that entering these into 
a digital bookkeeping system is the same process as entering the transactions manually, 
although the way they are entered will vary from system to system. 

The United Kingdom (UK) government department responsible for collecting taxes, HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC), offers more than one method of accounting treatment when 
prompt payment discount (PPD) is allowed and received. However, students at this level are 
only required to use credit notes to adjust for PPD. Using this approach, credit notes are 
recorded in separate daybooks, a discounts allowed and/or a discounts received daybook, 
which removes the need for discount columns in the cash book. There is no requirement at this 
level for students to understand how to account for PPD by any other method. This unit refers 
to value added tax or VAT. This is an indirect tax operating in the UK, but this type of tax may 
also operate and be known by another name in other countries. 

The cash book and petty cash book are also covered in this unit, including making entries into 
both and transferring totals to the ledgers. Students will learn that entering transactions into the 
cash book of a digital bookkeeping system serves the same purpose as entering the 
transactions into a manual bookkeeping system. Students will make appropriate checks on the 
accuracy of supplier invoices and credit notes, reconcile supplier statements with the 
purchases ledger account and calculate payments due to suppliers. They will also calculate 
sales invoice and credit note amounts and check receipts from customers. 

Students will have learnt all stages necessary to process transactions using both manual and 
digital systems. Reference to digital systems includes applications as well as both desktop and 
cloud accounting software. 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Learning outcomes 

1.  Understand how to set up bookkeeping systems 
2.  Process customer transactions 
3.  Process supplier transactions 
4.  Process receipts and payments 
5.  Process transactions into the ledger accounts 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

26 

 
 
 
 
 
Scope of content 

This section illustrates the depth and breadth of content to be delivered for this unit. All areas 
indicated in the table below must be covered in teaching.  

Learners may not be assessed on all content, or on the full depth or breadth of a piece of 
content. Content assessed may change over time to ensure validity of assessment.  

1. Understand how to set up bookkeeping systems 

1.1 

The purpose of business documents 

Learners need to understand: 

1.1.1 

the purpose of business documents:  

-  petty cash voucher  
-  invoice  
-  credit note (including for PPD)  
-  remittance advice  
-  statement of account 
-  bank statement. 

1.2 

The process of recording bookkeeping transactions 

Learners need to understand: 

1.2.1 

1.2.2 

1.2.3 

1.2.4 
1.2.5 

1.2.6 

1.2.7 

the role of the books of prime entry:  
-  sales daybook 
-  sales returns daybook  
-  purchases daybook 
-  purchases returns daybook  
-  discounts allowed daybook 
-  discounts received daybook  
the role of the cash book and petty cash book:  
-  as a book of prime entry only, or as a book of prime entry and part of the 

double-entry bookkeeping system 

the ledgers:  
-  receivables  
-  payables  
-  general 
the purpose of the trial balance 
the purpose of financial statements:  
-  statement of profit or loss 
-  statement of financial position 
the importance of ensuring that bookkeeping transactions are entered accurately: 
-  the consequences of inaccurate entry in manual systems 
-  the consequences of inaccurate entry in digital systems 
that digital systems can import transactions from a number of sources: 
-  bank records 
-  csv files 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.8 

-  third party software 
the benefits and drawbacks of using digital bookkeeping systems: 
-  automatically balances the cash book 
-  automatically completes the transfer of data from the books of prime entry to 

the ledgers 

-  automatically completes the transfer of data into the control accounts 
-  automatically reconciles the receivables and payables ledgers to their 

respective control accounts 

-  automatically creates a trial balance from the general ledger accounts 
-  processes recurring entries 
-  saves time 
-  reduces errors and omissions 
-  makes duplication of automated and manual entries possible 
-  can create errors when the amount or frequency of a recurring entry changes 
-  automatically balances but doesn’t mean the entries are automatically correct. 

Learners need to be able to: 

1.3.3  create codes:  
-  alphabetical 
-  numerical 
-  alphanumerical.  

1.3 

Create and use coding systems 
Learners need to understand: 

1.3.1 

the different types of code:  
-  customer account  
-  supplier account  
-  product  
-  general ledger 

1.3.2  where to use codes:  

-  sales daybook 
-  sales returns daybook 
-  discounts allowed daybooks  
-  purchases daybook 
-  purchases returns daybook 
-  discounts received daybook 
-  receivables ledger  
-  payables ledger. 

1.4 

Set bookkeeping systems 

Learners need to know: 

Learners need to be able to: 

1.4.1 

1.4.2 

the dual effect of transaction, i.e. 
debits and credits   
the accounting equation (calculation 
of assets, liabilities and capital). 

1.4.3  classify the following items:  

-  assets  
-  liabilities 
-  equity (capital)  
-  income (revenue)  
-  expenses (costs). 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Process customer transactions 

2.1 

Calculate invoice and credit note amounts 
Learners need to understand: 

2.1.1 

2.1.2 

the documents to be used:  
-  quotation  
-  discount policy  
-  customer order  
-  delivery note  
-  price list 
the difference between discounts 
offered: 
-  prompt payment discount (PPD) 
-  trade discount 
-  bulk discount 

2.1.3  how discounts are shown on invoices: 

-  PPD  
-  trade discount 
-  bulk discount 

2.1.4  how to use credit notes to adjust for 
PPD and how PPD is recorded once 
taken:  
-  discounts allowed daybook  
-  customer account 
-  receivables ledger control account 
-  discounts allowed account 
-  value added tax (VAT) account. 

Learners need to be able to: 

2.1.5  calculate invoice amounts:  

-  item price  
-  net  
-  VAT  
-  total  
-  trade discount  
-  bulk discount  

2.1.6  calculate credit note amounts:  

-  item price  
-  net  
-  VAT  
-  total  
-  trade  
-  bulk  
-  PPD. 

2.2 

Enter customer invoices and credit notes into books of prime entry 
Learners need to know: 

Learners need to be able to: 

2.2.3  calculate amounts from:  

-  net figures 
-  total figures 

2.2.4  make entries in books of prime 

2.2.5 

entry  
total columns in books of prime 
entry. 

2.2.1 

2.2.2 

the books of prime entry:   
-  sales daybook 
-  sales returns daybook 
-  discounts allowed daybook 
the columns within books of prime 
entry: 
-  customer name  
-  customer account code  
-  total  
-  VAT  
-  net 
-  analysis (including product codes). 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 

Process receipts from customers 
Learners need to know: 

Learners need to be able to: 

2.3.1 

the records and documents to use:  

2.3.2 

-  customer account 
-  sales invoice  
-  sales credit note  
-  remittance advice  
-  discount policy. 

identify discrepancies:  
-  underpayments  
-  overpayments  
-  incorrect discount taken 
-  incorrect amounts  
-  incorrect details 
-  timing differences  
-  missing transactions  
-  duplicated transactions 

2.3.3  calculate amounts due from 

customers including PPD 

2.3.4  allocate amounts correctly: 
-  in full payment  
-  in part payment  
-  against opening balances  
-  against invoices  
-  against credit notes. 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Process supplier transactions 

3.1 

Check the accuracy of supplier invoices and credit notes 

Learners need to understand: 

Learners need to be able to: 

3.1.5 

identify discrepancies that may 
be found:  

-  non-delivery of goods  
-  incorrect type or quantity of 

goods 

-  incorrect calculations  
-  incorrect discounts (trade, bulk 

and prompt payment)  

-  date and terms of payment. 

3.1.1 

the documents to use:  

-  quotations including discounts  
-  purchase orders  
-  goods received notes  
-  delivery notes  
-  goods returned notes 
the difference between discounts 
offered: 

3.1.2 

-  prompt payment  
-  trade and bulk 

3.1.3  how discounts are shown on invoices:  

-  prompt payment  
-  trade and bulk 

3.1.4  how to use credit notes to adjust for 
PPD and how PPD is recorded once 
taken:  

-  discounts received daybook  
-  supplier account  
-  payables ledger control account  
-  discounts received account 
-  value added tax (VAT) account. 

3.2 

Enter purchase supplier invoices and credit notes into books of prime entry  

Learners need to know: 

Learners need to be able to: 

3.2.1 

the books of prime entry:  

3.2.3  calculate amounts from net and 

total figures 

3.2.4  make entries in books of prime 

3.2.5 

entry  
total columns in books of prime 
entry. 

-  purchases daybook 
-  purchases returns daybook  
-  discounts received daybook 
the columns within books of prime 
entry: 

3.2.2 

-  supplier name 
-  supplier account code 
-  total 
-  VAT 
-  net 
-  analysis (including product code). 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3  Process payments to suppliers 

Learners need to know: 

Learners need to be able to: 

3.3.1 

the records and documents to use:  

3.3.3  identify discrepancies between the 

-  supplier account 
-  invoices and credit notes 

(including discounts and VAT) 

-  statement of account  
the information to take into account:  

3.3.2 

-  agreed payment terms. 

supplier’s statement of account 
and the supplier account in the 
payables ledger:  

-  underpayments  
-  overpayments  
-  incorrect discount taken 
-  incorrect amounts  
-  incorrect details 
-  timing differences  
-  missing transactions  
-  duplicated transactions 

3.3.4  calculate payments due to 

suppliers, including PPD 

3.3.5  allocate amounts correctly: 

-  in full payment 
-  in part payment  
-  against opening balances  
-  against invoices  
-  against credit notes. 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Process receipts and payments 

4.1 

Enter receipts and payments into an analysed cash book 
Learners need to know: 

Learners need to be able to: 

4.1.1 

the format of the cash book: 

4.1.3  calculate amounts from net and 

total figures 

4.1.4  make entries in the cash book. 

-  date 
-  details 
-  cash 
-  bank 
-  analysis columns (including VAT)  
the documents to use:  

4.1.2 

-  direct debit/standing order 

schedule  

-  remittance advice (including 

BACS) 
-  paying-in slip  
-  cheque stub  
-  cash receipt  
-  receipts and payments listing.  

4.2  Enter receipts and payments into an analysed petty cash book 

Learners need to know: 

Learners need to be able to: 

4.2.1 

the format of the petty cash book:  

4.2.3  calculate amounts from net and 

-  date  
-  details  
-  cash  
-  analysis columns (including VAT) 

total figures 

4.2.4  make entries in the petty cash 
book including reimbursement 
using the imprest and non-
imprest systems. 

4.2.2 

the documents to use:  

-  cash receipt 
-  petty cash voucher. 

4.3  Total and balance the cash book and petty cash book 

Learners need to be able to: 

4.3.1 

total and balance the: 

-  cash book 
-  petty cash book. 

4.4  Process recurring receipts and payments 

Learners need to understand: 

Learners need to be able to:  

4.4.1 

the information required to set up a 
recurring entry. 

4.4.2 

the effect of recurring entries in the 
digital bookkeeping system. 

4.4.3  set up a recurring entry. 

4.4.4  process a recurring entry. 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Process transactions into the ledger accounts 

5.1  Transfer data from the books of prime entry to the ledgers 

Learners need to be able to: 
5.1.3 

transfer data from books of 
prime entry to the relevant 
accounts in the ledgers. 

Learners need to know: 
5.1.1 

the ledgers:  

-  receivables 
-  payables 
-  general 
that the receivables and payables 
ledger control accounts are part of the 
double-entry system. 

5.1.2 

5.2  Total and balance ledger accounts 

Learners need to be able to: 
5.2.1 

total and balance ledger accounts: 

-  balance carried down 
-  balance brought down 
-  debit balance 
-  credit balance. 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Delivering this unit 

To deliver this unit effectively, tutors should teach both the manual method and digital methods, 
although there is no requirement to learn any specific digital method. Tutors should ensure that 
students have access to a suitable digital system, including specialised accounting software 
packages, as part of their study for this unit. 

Tutors could teach the content using manual bookkeeping methods and assign the student to 
complete the same tasks using digital accounting systems in order to understand where the 
processes are the same or differ. Similarly, the tutor can teach new areas using a digital 
accounting system first and then assign the student to complete the same task using the 
manual method. 

Tutors could ensure that students understand that the principles they are learning are the same 
regardless of whether they are entered into a manual system or a digital system. The student 
should understand that accounting software automates the double-entry process but does not 
replace it. 

Links with other units 
This unit has close links with: 

•  Level 2 Principles of Bookkeeping Controls  
•  Level 2 The Business Environment  
•  Level 3 Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements  
•  Level 4 Cash and Financial Management.  

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Test specification for Introduction to Bookkeeping unit assessment 

Please refer to the latest Qualification Technical Information (QTI) for specific legislation that 
will apply to assessments. Details can be accessed at  
aat.org.uk/deliver/qualifications/specifications-outlines 

Assessment method 

Marking type 

Duration of assessment 

Computer based 
assessment 

Computer marked 

1 hour 30 minutes  

Learning outcomes 

Weighting 

1.  Understand how to set up bookkeeping systems 

2.  Process customer transactions 

3.  Process supplier transactions 

4.  Process receipts and payments 

5.  Process transactions into the ledger accounts 

Total 

20% 

20% 

20% 

20% 

20% 

100% 

Introduction to Bookkeeping 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principles of Bookkeeping Controls 

Unit level  GLH value 

Unit reference number 

Assessment 

2 

50 

K/618/3584 

Unit and synoptic 
assessments 

Introduction 

This unit builds on the knowledge and skills acquired from studying Introduction to 
Bookkeeping and explores control accounts, journals and reconciliations. It takes students 
through a number of processes used in bookkeeping that help verify and validate the 
entries made. These processes enable the student to understand the purpose of control 
accounts and associated reconciliations. Students will also understand the use of the 
journal to the stage of redrafting the trial balance, following initial adjustments. 

This unit covers procedures that are required to ensure bookkeeping is completed beyond 
purely entering or processing initial transactions, which will enable students to develop their 
understanding of the relationship between the various accounting records and consolidate 
their knowledge of double-entry bookkeeping.  

Students will develop the ability to prepare the value added tax (VAT) control account as 
well as the receivables and payables ledger control accounts, including reconciliation with 
the receivables and payables ledgers. They will use the journal to record a variety of 
transactions, including the correction of errors. Students will be able to redraft the initial trial 
balance, following adjustments. They will learn to update the cash book following receipt of 
a bank statement, and also how to prepare a bank reconciliation statement. 

This unit explores the knowledge required to complete these bookkeeping procedures both 
manually and digitally. While the student will not be expected to demonstrate the ability to 
use any specific accounting software, the unit will explain to them where digital accounting 
systems are automating processes they are learning. The skills and knowledge gained will 
enable students to understand the business environment and facilitate their comprehension 
of a digital accounting system. Reference to digital systems includes applications as well as 
both desktop and cloud accounting software. 

Principles of Bookkeeping Controls  

37 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Learning outcomes 

1.  Use control accounts 
2.  Reconcile a bank statement with the cash book 
3.  Use the journal 
4.  Produce trial balances 

Principles of Bookkeeping Controls  

38 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Scope of content 

This section illustrates the depth and breadth of content to be delivered for this unit. All 
areas indicated in the table below must be covered in teaching.  

Learners may not be assessed on all content, or on the full depth or breadth of a piece of 
content. Content assessed may change over time to ensure validity of assessment. 

1.  Use control accounts 

1.1 

Produce control accounts 

Learners need to understand: 

Learners need to be able to: 

1.1.1 

the purpose of the receivables and 
payables ledger control accounts 
(part of the double-entry 
bookkeeping system) 

1.1.2 

the purpose of the VAT control 
account. 

1.1.3  prepare control accounts:  

- 

receivables ledger 

-  payables ledger  

-  VAT  

1.1.4 

total and balance control accounts: 

-  balance carried down  

-  balance brought down. 

1.2 

Reconcile control accounts 

Learners need to understand: 

Learners need to be able to: 

1.2.1 

reasons for reconciling the 
receivables and payables ledger 
control accounts with the 
receivables and payables ledgers. 

1.2.2 

total the balances of the individual 
receivables and payables ledger 
accounts:  

1.2.3 

1.2.4 

1.2.5 

- 

receivables ledger debit/credit 
balances 

-  payables ledger debit/credit 

balances 

identify discrepancies between the 
receivables and payables ledger 
control accounts and the individual 
customer and supplier accounts 
reconcile control accounts:  

- 

receivables ledger 

-  payables ledger  

identify reasons for discrepancies 
between the receivables and 
payables ledger control accounts 
and the individual customer and 
supplier accounts. 

Principles of Bookkeeping Controls  

39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Reconcile a bank statement with the cash book 

2.1 

Payment methods 
Learners need to understand: 

2.1.1  different payment methods:  

-  cash  

-  cheque  

-  debit card  

-  credit card  

-  bank draft  

-  standing order  

-  direct debit  

-  BACS (Bankers’ Automated Clearing Services)  

-  direct credit  

-  CHAPS (Clearing House Automated Payment System)  

-  Faster Payments  

2.1.2 

that different payment methods affect the bank balance in different ways:  

- 

- 

reduce funds on the date of payment  

reduce funds at a later date  

-  have no effect.  

2.2 

Use the bank statement to update the cash book  

Learners need to understand: 

Learners need to be able to: 

2.2.1 

reasons for reconciling the bank 
statement with the cash book 

2.2.2 

the items that can cause differences 
between bank statements and the 
cash book: 

-  opening balances  

-  bank interest paid/received  
-  bank charges  

2.2.3  update the cash book using the 

bank statement:  

-  unrecorded  

-  duplicated  

2.2.4 

total and balance the cash book:  

-  credit/debit balance carried 

down 

-  credit/debit balance brought 

-  automated payments/receipts  

down. 

- 

timing differences: 

▪  unpresented cheques  
▪  outstanding lodgements.  

2.3 

Complete bank reconciliation statements 
Learners need to be able to: 

2.3.1  complete bank reconciliation statements using:  

-  closing bank statement balance  

- 

timing differences: 

▪  unpresented cheques   
▪  outstanding lodgements 

-  closing cash book balance. 

Principles of Bookkeeping Controls  

40 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Use the journal 

3.1 

Produce journal entries to record bookkeeping transactions 

Learners need to understand: 

Learners need to be able to: 

3.1.1 

the purpose of the journal as a book 
of prime entry (manual and digital) 
3.1.2  how the journal is used to record:  

-  opening entries  

- 

irrecoverable debts written off  

-  payroll transactions. 

3.1.3  process journal entries to the 

general ledger accounts 

3.1.4 

record opening entries  

3.1.5 

record entries to write off 
irrecoverable debts:  

- 

record VAT where appropriate 

-  calculate VAT from gross 

amounts 

-  calculate VAT from net amounts 

3.1.6 

record entries for payroll 
transactions:  

-  wages control account  

-  gross pay  

- 

income tax  

-  employer’s and employees’ 

National Insurance 
Contributions (NICs) 

-  employer’s and employees’ 

pensions 

-  voluntary deductions. 

3.2 

Produce journal entries to correct errors not disclosed by the trial balance 

Learners need to understand:  

Learners need to be able to: 

3.2.3  correct errors using the journal. 

3.2.1 

3.2.2 

the difference between errors 
disclosed and not disclosed by the 
trial balance 
types of errors not disclosed by the 
trial balance (manual and digital):  

-  error of commission  

-  error of omission  

-  error of original entry  

-  error of principle  

- 

reversal of entries  

-  compensating errors. 

3.3 

Produce journal entries to correct errors disclosed by the trial balance 

Learners need to understand: 

3.3.1 

the purpose of a suspense account.  

Learners need to be able to: 

3.3.2  open a suspense account  
3.3.3  correct errors and clear the 
suspense account using the 
journal. 

Principles of Bookkeeping Controls  

41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Produce trial balances 
4.1 

Extract an initial trial balance 
Learners need to know: 

Learners need to be able to: 

4.1.1  how to use the general ledger to 

4.1.3 

extract balances 
the column to use in the trial balance:  

4.1.2 

4.1.4 

-  debit 

-  credit. 

4.2  Redraft the trial balance following adjustments 

Learners need to be able to: 

transfer balances to the initial trial 
balance 
total and balance the initial trial 
balance. 

recalculate the balance of a general ledger account following journal entries 

4.2.1 
4.2.2  complete a trial balance from adjusted and unadjusted balances 
4.2.3  balance the adjusted trial balance: total debit and credit columns. 

Principles of Bookkeeping Controls  

42 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Delivering this unit 

To deliver this unit effectively, tutors should teach both the manual method and digital 
methods, although there is no requirement to learn any specific digital method. Tutors 
should ensure that students have access to a suitable digital system, including specialised 
accounting software packages, as part of their study for this unit. 

Tutors can then teach the content using manual bookkeeping methods and assign the 
student to complete the same tasks using digital accounting systems in order to understand 
where the processes are the same or differ. Similarly, the tutor can teach new areas using a 
digital accounting system first and then assign the student to complete the same task using 
the manual method. 

Tutors should ensure that students understand that the principles they are learning are the 
same regardless of whether they are entered into a manual system or a digital system. The 
student should understand that accounting software automates the double-entry process 
but does not replace it. 

Links with other units 

This unit has close links with: 

•  Level 2 Introduction to Bookkeeping  
•  Level 2 The Business Environment  
•  Level 3 Financial Accounting: Preparing Financial Statements  
•  Level 4 Cash and Financial Management.  

Principles of Bookkeeping Controls  

43 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Test specification for Principles of Bookkeeping Controls unit assessment 

Please refer to the latest Qualification Technical Information (QTI) for specific legislation 
that will apply to assessments. Details can be accessed at 
aat.org.uk/deliver/qualifications/specifications-outlines 

Assessment method 

Marking type 

Duration of assessment 

Computer based 
assessment 

Computer marked 

1 hour 30 minutes  

Learning outcomes 

1.  Use control accounts 

2.  Reconcile a bank statement with the cash book 

3.  Use the journal 

4.  Produce trial balances 

Total 

Weighting 

25% 

25% 

25% 

25% 

100% 

Principles of Bookkeeping Controls  

44 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principles of Costing 

Unit 
level 

2 

GLH value 

50 

Unit reference 
number 

M/618/3585 

Assessment 

Unit assessment 

Introduction 

This unit gives students an introduction to the principles of basic costing and builds a solid 
foundation in the knowledge and skills required for more complex costing and management 
accounting. Students will learn the importance of the costing system as a source of 
information that allows management to plan, make decisions and control costs. Students 
should recognise the key differences from a business perspective between costing and 
financial accounting.  

Students will learn a range of techniques to cost materials, labour and overheads to 
establish the unit cost of a product or service, and this will include understanding and 
applying codes. Students will learn how to classify costs and will understand how different 
classifications of cost can be used for internal management decision making. 

Students will understand how cost behaves at different levels of output, and how variable 
and fixed costs per unit behave as output changes. Students will learn to build a basic unit 
product cost using labour hours, machine hours and per unit as a basis. This will prepare 
students and give them the basic tools for studies in overhead apportionment, 
reapportionment and absorption in later units. They will learn that overhead is a large, and 
in many cases the largest, component of cost. The budgetary control system is introduced, 
and by comparing actual costs with budgeted costs for a single product and using a fixed 
budget, students will determine variances, noting whether they are adverse or favourable 
and reporting to management on their causes and effects. 

Learning the tools and techniques that can be used to support the calculation of costs will 
allow students to recognise that cost calculations can be prepared more quickly and 
accurately than manual calculations.  

Principles of Costing  

45 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Learning outcomes 

1.  Understand the cost recording system within an organisation 
2.  Use cost recording techniques 
3.  Provide information on actual and budgeted costs and income 
4.  Use tools and techniques to support cost calculations 

Principles of Costing  

46 

 
 
 
 
 
Scope of content 

This section illustrates the depth and breadth of content to be delivered for this unit. All 
areas indicated in the table below must be covered in teaching.  

Learners may not be assessed on all content, or on the full depth or breadth of a piece of 
content. Content assessed may change over time to ensure validity of assessment.  

1. Understand the cost recording system within an organisation 

1.1  Collection and classification of costs in different types of organisations 

Learners need to know: 
1.1.1  how costs are collected in different organisations 

1.1.2  how elements of cost are classified:  

- 

labour 

-  materials 

-  overheads 

1.1.3  how costs are classified by nature:  

-  direct 
- 

indirect 

1.1.4  how costs are classified by behaviour:  

- 

fixed 

-  variable 
-  semi-variable and stepped costs  

1.1.5 

the difference between product costs and period costs. 

1.2  Costing techniques used in organisations 

Learners need to know: 

1.2.1  how product cost is determined:  

-  materials 

labour  
- 
-  overheads 

1.2.2 

inventory valuation methods:  
first-in-first-out (FIFO)  
- 

- 

last-in-first-out (LIFO)  

-  weighted average cost (AVCO) 

1.2.3 

labour costing methods:  

- 

time-rate  

-  overtime, i.e. basic and premium rates 

-  piecework 

- 

individual and team bonus payments 

-  guaranteed minimum payments 

1.2.4  overhead absorption methods:  

-  per unit 

- 

labour hours 

Principles of Costing  

47 

 
 
 
 
-  machine hours. 

1.3  Relationships between costing and financial accounting systems within 

organisations  

Learners need to understand: 

1.3.1 

the costing and financial accounting systems within an organisation 

1.3.2  how each system uses costs:  

-  costing systems use many classifications of cost 

- 

financial accounting uses only historic costs. 

1.4  Sources of information on income and expenditure 

Learners need to know: 

1.4.1  how historic cost is used for accounting and costing reporting 

1.4.2  how costing systems use actual or budgeted costs to determine unit/job/batch 

costs 

1.4.3  how budgeted and actual costs are used for planning and control purposes. 

1.5  Differences between cost, profit and investment centres 

Learners need to know: 

1.5.1 

the differences between cost, revenue, profit and investment centres 

1.5.2 

the use of different centres in different organisations. 

1.6  Classification and recording of labour and overheads  

Learners need to know: 

1.6.1  how costs are classified by element, nature, behaviour and function 

1.6.2  how costs are coded using numeric, alphabetic and alphanumeric coding systems 

1.6.3  different costs included in a manufacturing account 

1.6.4  how a manufacturing account is constructed.  

Principles of Costing  

48 

 
 
 
 
2. Use cost recording techniques 

2.1  Calculate cost of inventory issues and inventory valuations 

Learners need to be able to: 

2.1.1  cost issues of inventory for management accounting purposes using FIFO, AVCO 

and for internal use LIFO 

2.1.2  calculate closing values of inventory using FIFO, AVCO and LIFO 

2.1.3  analyse and report on inventory control policy compliance including buffer stocks 

and reorder quantities and timings. 

2.2  Calculate labour payments 

Learners need to be able to: 

2.2.1  calculate labour payments:  

- 

time-rate 

-  overtime, i.e. basic pay and overtime premium  

-  piecework 

- 

individual and team bonuses 

-  guaranteed minimum payments. 

2.3  Calculate overhead absorption rates 

Learners need to be able to: 

2.3.1  calculate overhead absorption rates to arrive at unit cost:  

-  per unit  

-  per labour hour 

-  per machine hour. 

2.4  Use cost behaviour to calculate total and unit costs 

Learners need to understand: 
2.4.1 

that variable costs per unit remain 
the same at different levels of 
output but fixed costs per unit will 
change 

2.4.2 

that total cost per unit will also 
change as it may be made up of 
fixed, variable, semi-variable and 
stepped costs.  

Learners need to be able to: 
2.4.3  calculate total and unit costs at 
different levels of output 

2.4.4 

recognise changes in different costs 
as output levels change. 

Principles of Costing  

49 

 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5  Calculate the costs of a product 

Learners need to understand: 
2.5.1  how direct cost is a component of 

Learners need to be able to: 

2.5.4  calculate product costs:  

product cost. 

2.5.2 

the different treatment of product 
costs and period costs 

2.5.3 

the components of: 

-  direct cost 

-  manufacturing cost 

-  materials 

- 

labour  

-  overheads 

2.5.5  calculate costs of products 

manufacturing organisations: 

-  direct cost 

-  cost of goods manufactured 

-  manufacturing cost 

-  cost of goods sold. 

-  cost of goods manufactured 

-  cost of goods sold 

2.5.6  calculate costs of products in service 

organisations. 

3. Provide information on actual and budgeted costs and income 

3.1  Actual and budgeted costs and income 

Learners need to understand: 
3.1.1  how budgets are used for  

short-term planning and control   

3.1.2  different types of budget: 

- 

- 

fixed  

flexible 

3.1.3  how to determine if a variable is 
adverse or favourable for 
budgeted costs and income. 

Learners need to be able to: 

3.1.4  prepare budgets for single product 

organisations: 
-  revenue 

-  materials 

- 

- 

labour 

fixed overheads 

3.1.5  calculate variances between actual 

and budgeted costs and income: 

- 

- 

- 

- 

total materials 

total labour 

total overheads 

total income  

3.1.6  calculate variances as a percentage 
of budgeted costs and income. 

3.2  Exception reporting to identify significant variances 

Learners need to be able to: 
3.2.1 

identify significant variances according to an organisation’s policy 

3.2.2  analyse and report on the potential causes of variances 

3.2.3  analyse and report on the potential effects of variances  

3.2.4 

report variance analysis to relevant manager.  

Principles of Costing  

50 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Use tools and techniques to support cost calculations  

4.1  Enter and format data 

Learners need to be able to: 

4.1.1  enter data into specified cells 

4.1.2 

format cells: 

-  bold 

- 

italics 

-  underline 

-  merge 

- 

fill with colour 

-  wrap text 

- 

text size 

-  borders 

4.1.3 

format numbers: 

- 

thousand separators  

-  accountancy  

-  percentages  

-  decimals 

4.1.4  copy and paste cells (not paste values or paste link) 

4.1.5 

insert rows and columns. 

4.2  Use formulas to support cost calculations  

Learners must be able to: 

4.2.1  use basic formulas:  

-  addition:  

▪  =SUM(CELLREFERENCE 1:CELLREFERENCE 2)  

• 

i.e. =SUM(A1:A10) 

▪  =CELLREFERENCE 1+CELLREFERENCE 2 

• 

i.e. A1+B10 

-  subtraction:  

▪  =CELLREFERENCE 1-CELLREFERENCE 2 

• 

i.e. A1-B10 

-  multiplication:  

▪  = CELLREFERENCE 1*CELLREFERENCE 2 

• 

i.e. A1*B10 

-  division:  

▪  = CELLREFERENCE 1/CELLREFERENCE 2 

• 

i.e. A1/B10 

Note: Use of formulas will require students to combine more than one function for a 
calculation. 

Students will not be credited for formulas that include: 

- 

unnecessary spaces 

Principles of Costing  

51 

 
 
 
 
- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

commas 

for example: =SUM(B2,C2) rather than =SUM(B2:C2) 

▪ 
square brackets [ ] or curly brackets { } – learners must use ( ) 

use of brackets to reference single cells 

▪ 

for example =SUM(B1+B2+B3), rather than =SUM(B1:B3) 

PRODUCT in formulas for multiplication 

numbers in place of cell references 

redundant references to cells not required for the calculation 

using unnecessary positives/negatives to begin or modify a calculation 

for example, expressing =C11-B11 as =+C11-B11 or =-(B11-C11) 

▪ 
adding 0s to cell references  

▪ 

for example A01 or B09, rather than A1 or B9 

Principles of Costing  

52 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Delivering this unit 

To deliver this unit effectively, tutors should recognise that students may have little or no 
work experience in costing. The use of relevant products and services that students are 
familiar with in their daily lives will help to aid their understanding of this unit. For example, 
clothing, takeaway food and beverages will be recognisable to all students, along with items 
used in the workplace and training environment, such as office and IT equipment and 
services. The use of familiar products and services should enable students to have a better 
understanding of cost classification, total costs and how the cost of a product or service can 
change depending on the quantities produced, that is levels of output. Students should be 
encouraged to think about the different costs that occur in the production of a final product 
or service by participating in group discussions and projects. The use of media, such as 
documentaries featuring the manufacture of products, can also enhance the learning for 
students. 

Scenarios will assist in the teaching of costing techniques, for example the use of a factory 
or hair salon to illustrate how materials, labour and overhead costs can be determined, 
along with inventory valuations and the absorption of overhead. The use of reports and 
examples from organisations can be used to explain the differences between financial and 
cost accounting and how organisations are split into different departments. Speakers from a 
variety of organisations, both in manufacturing and service industries, could be asked to 
demonstrate the basic costing techniques they use.  

A great way of introducing the concept of budgeting to students is by asking them to 
consider their own finances, for example what they have to pay for on a regular basis, that 
is one-off costs and long-term considerations, whilst looking at plans to see how they will be 
able to fund their commitments. This could be done through projects and discussions, or 
case studies could be devised to avoid the sharing of personal information. 

The use of formatting and mathematical formulas should, wherever possible, be embedded 
within the learning when covering cost calculations. For example, use of formatting 
techniques to present budgetary data, showing budget, actual and variances.  

Links with other units 

This unit has close links with: 

•  Level 2 The Business Environment  
•  Level 3 Management Accounting Techniques  
•  Level 4 Applied Management Accounting.  

Principles of Costing  

53 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Test specification for Principles of Costing unit assessment 

Please refer to the latest Qualification Technical Information (QTI) for specific legislation 
that will apply to assessments. Details can be accessed at 
aat.org.uk/deliver/qualifications/specifications-outlines 

Assessment method 

Marking type 

Duration of assessment 

Computer based 
assessment 

Computer marked 

1 hour 30 minutes  

Learning outcomes 

Weighting 

1.  Understand the cost recording system within an organisation 

2.  Use cost recording techniques 

3.  Provide information on actual and budgeted costs and income 

4.  Use tools and techniques to support cost calculations 

Total 

30% 

40% 

20% 

10% 

100% 

Principles of Costing  

54 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Business Environment 

Unit 
level 

2 

GLH value 

90 

Unit reference 
number 

M/618/3586 

Assessment 

Synoptic 
assessment 

Introduction 

The business environment is dynamic and is changing considerably as the digital age 
progresses to facilitate the global nature of business. It is essential that students are aware 
of the impact that this environment has on organisations, from sole traders to large 
companies operating in local, national and global markets, and that they are equipped with 
the knowledge and skills to enable them to work effectively.  

This unit provides knowledge and understanding of key business concepts and their 
practical application in the external and internal environment in which students will work. 
Students will gain an understanding of the legal system and principles of contract law and 
an appreciation of the legal implications of setting up a business and the consequences this 
may have. Wider issues impacting businesses will be considered, including the global 
economic environment in which it operates, how governments impact upon it and the 
competitive nature of the global economy. 

Students will learn how organisations are structured and where the finance function fits 
within this. They will recognise that the role of the finance function has changed 
considerably due to the impact of new technologies. Although many of the activities remain 
similar, their scope and nature reach beyond the traditional boundaries of the finance 
function. 

This unit will prepare students for the current workplace and help them recognise the 
importance of working effectively, whilst acknowledging the value of differences and being 
sensitive to the needs of others. They will gain an appreciation of communication methods 
and learn how to recognise valid sources of information. They will develop skills in using 
data analytic technology to solve problems, analyse data and communicate effectively.  

Ethics and sustainability are key themes embedded throughout this unit. Students will 
recognise the importance of ethics in business and how sustainable business is important 
for future business success.  

The Business Environment  

55 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Learning outcomes 

1.  Understand the principles of contract law 

2.  Understand the external business environment 

3.  Understand key principles of corporate social responsibility (CSR), ethics and sustainability 

4.  Understand the impact of setting up different types of business entity 

5.  Understand the finance function within an organisation 

6.  Produce work in appropriate formats and communicate effectively 

7.  Understand the importance of information to business operations 

The Business Environment  

56 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scope of content 

This section illustrates the depth and breadth of content to be delivered for this unit. All 
areas indicated in the table below must be covered in teaching.  

Learners may not be assessed on all content, or on the full depth or breadth of a piece of 
content. Content assessed may change over time to ensure validity of assessment.  

1. Understand the principles of contract law  

1.1 

The different classifications of law 

Learners need to understand: 

1.1.1 

the principles of: 

-  common law and equity 

-  public law and private law 

-  criminal law and civil law. 

1.2 

The main sources of law  
Learners need to understand: 

1.2.1 

the development of law by the courts, tribunals and parliament 

1.3 

Key features of contracts 

Learners need to know: 

1.3.1 

the meaning of invitation to treat, offer and termination 

1.3.2 

the meaning and consequences of acceptance 

1.3.3 

the meaning of and the need for consideration 

1.3.4  capacity and legality (valid, void, voidable contracts) 

1.3.5 

the meaning of discharge of contract:  

-  by performance  

-  by breach. 

1.4 

Remedies available for breach of contract 
Learners need to understand: 

1.4.1 

the consequences of being in breach of contract through: 

-  damages 

-  equitable remedies. 

The Business Environment  

57 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Understand the external business environment 
2.1 

The economic environment 

Learners need to understand: 

2.1.1 

the micro-economic environment:  

- 

the forces of supply and demand on pricing and output 

2.1.2 

the profit motive of business 

2.1.3 

that businesses face uncertainty and risk. 

2.1.4 

that businesses operate in a global business environment 

2.2 

Government control of the economy 

Learners need to understand: 

2.2.1  how government controls the economy 

2.2.2 

the key principles of an effective tax system: 

-  equity  

-  certainty  

-  convenience  

-  economy  

- 

- 

fairness  

transparency    

2.2.3  how government raises finances through the tax system from:  

- 

individuals  

-  businesses  

- 

indirect taxes 

2.2.4 

the impact of government on interest rates, levels of employment and consumer 
spending. 

2.3 

The competitive environment 
Learners need to understand: 

2.3.1  how the competitive global market may affect a business 

2.3.2  how changes in exchange rates may change business costs 

2.3.3 

the uncertainty and risks faced by business in the global market 

2.3.4 

the benefits and disadvantages to a business of trading internationally. 

The Business Environment  

58 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Understand key principles of corporate social responsibility (CSR), ethics and sustainability 
3.1 

Corporate social responsibilities of a business 

Learners need to understand: 

3.1.1 

the objective of CSR 

3.1.2 

the involvement of internal and external stakeholders  

3.1.3  how CSR responsibilities change over time. 

3.2 

Sustainability and the environment 

Learners need to understand: 

3.2.1 

the responsibility of business with respect to sustainability 

3.2.2 

the principles of triple bottom line reporting 

3.2.3 

there may be a trade-off between sustainability and profit 

3.2.4  how businesses respond to changes in the environment to succeed in the long 

term. 

3.3 

The fundamental principles of ethics for accounting technicians 

Learners need to know: 

3.3.1 

the five fundamental principles of ethics: 

-  confidentiality 
-  professional behaviour 

-  professional competence and due care 

- 

integrity  

-  objectivity.    

3.4  The need to act ethically 

Learners need to understand: 
3.4.1  why it is important to act ethically: 

- 

- 

- 

- 

the difference between acting professionally and being a member of a 
professional body  
the importance of accounting technicians complying with AAT’s Code of 
Professional Ethics  

the accounting technician’s public interest duty to society as well as to the 
client or employer 

the legal and professional nature of the accountant’s obligation of compliance 
with the ethical code  

-  when disciplinary action by AAT or internal disciplinary procedures may be 

- 

brought against accounting technicians for unethical behaviour 
fines or reputational damage suffered by organisations as a result of unethical 
behaviour and non-compliance with values, codes and regulations 

3.4.2 

the actions accounting technicians may have to take to act ethically: 

-  specific actions that accounting technicians may have to take in order to 

behave ethically  

-  why simply complying with regulations may not constitute ethical behaviour. 

The Business Environment  

59 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Understand the impact of setting up different types of business entity 

4.1 

Models of business ownership 
Learners need to understand: 

4.1.1 

the entity concept 

4.1.2 

the different legal structures that businesses adopt:  

-  sole trader 

-  partnership (including limited liability partnership (LLP)) 

-  company 

-  not-for-profit organisation 

4.1.3 

4.1.4 

that ownership of a business can be separate from the management and control 
of the business  

the types of tax applicable to individuals, partnerships (including LLPs) and 
companies:  

- 

income tax 

-  PAYE  

-  corporation tax  

-  VAT 

4.1.5 

the concept of limited liability and its effect 

4.1.6 

the key features of each legal structure:  

-  control  

-  management 

-  sources of finance 

- 

liability  

-  distribution of profit. 

4.2 

The legal administration of a business 
Learners need to know: 

4.2.1 

for sole traders and limited companies: 

- 

- 

- 
- 

- 

- 

the statutory books that must be kept 

the accounting records that must be kept 

the tax records that must be kept 
the annual financial statements that must be filed 

the annual returns that must be filed 

the electronic filing requirements. 

4.3 

Business formation 
Learners need to know: 

4.3.1  how sole traders, partnerships (including LLPs) and limited companies are formed 

4.3.2 

the benefits and limitations of using ‘off the shelf’ companies 

4.3.3  why some companies may use pre-incorporation contracts 

4.3.4 

the implications of business name:  

-  what names can and cannot be used  

-  rules about similar and misleading names  

-  where names need to be displayed. 

The Business Environment  

60 

 
 
 
 
 
5. Understand the finance function within an organisation 
5.1 

The different functions of a business 

Learners need to know: 

5.1.1 

the different functions of a business: 

-  operations/production  

-  sales and marketing 

- 

finance  

-  human resources  

- 

information technology  

-  distribution and logistics 

5.1.2 

the role each function plays in contributing to business success 

5.1.3 

the interconnected nature of technology to support each function 

5.1.4 

that these functions may be combined in smaller organisations. 

5.2 

The role of the finance function 

Learners need to know: 

5.2.1 

the role of the finance function:  

-  responsibility for the production of statutory financial statements 
-  providing a service (information, support, advice and guidance) to both internal 

and external stakeholders 

5.2.2 

the relationship and interaction between finance and other functions of a business 

5.2.3  how processes within the finance function may be outsourced (e.g. payroll). 

5.3 

How the finance team contributes to the success of an organisation 

Learners need to know: 

5.3.1 

the importance of establishing effective business relationships 

5.3.2 

the principles of effective communication:  
-  content is written clearly, complete, accurate, timely and concise  
-  meets the needs of the recipient 
-  appropriate medium is used in a suitable environment 

5.3.3  how actions of finance staff support efficient working practices, solvency and  

long-term financial stability, legal and regulatory compliance 

5.3.4 

the importance to an organisation’s survival of remaining solvent and managing 
funds effectively 

5.3.5 

the different types of policies and procedures affecting finance staff:  
- 
-  organisation-wide 

finance function-specific  

5.3.6 

the role of finance in CSR reporting.  

The Business Environment  

61 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Produce work in appropriate formats and communicate effectively 

6.1 

Sources of information 

Learners need to be able to: 

6.1.5  choose information for a specific 

purpose. 

Learners need to know: 

6.1.1 

the difference between valid and 
invalid sources of information 

6.1.2 

the difference between primary and 
secondary sources  

6.1.3 

the benefits of obtaining information 
from more than one source 

6.1.4 

the importance of recognising 
sources when producing information. 

6.2  Communicate information 

Learners need to understand: 

Learners need to be able to: 

6.2.5  produce written communication 

using acceptable business 
language that is clear, structured 
and follows a logical progression:  

-  business letters 

-  emails 

6.2.6 

recognise the impact and 
consequences of ineffective or 
inappropriate communication. 

6.2.1 

the importance of effective note-
taking and documenting key pieces of 
information:  

-  when dealing with customers  
-  during meetings (one-to-ones with 

line manager; team)  

6.2.2 

the features of business 
communications: 

-  business letters  

-  emails  

- 

formal business reports  

-  spreadsheets  

-  social media communications  
- 

intranet 

6.2.3 

the influence and impact of 
inappropriate social media postings 

6.2.4 

the consequences of inappropriate 
information sharing. 

6.3 

Plan workload to meet the needs of the organisation 
Learners need to understand: 

Learners need to be able to: 

6.3.5  plan workload: 

-  prioritise 

-  monitor 

-  review. 

6.3.1 

the importance of communicating with 
others whilst undertaking a task or if 
deadlines may not be met 

6.3.2  how to prioritise workloads based on 

urgency and importance 

6.3.3 

the importance of meeting agreed 
deadlines and adhering to working 
practices 

6.3.4 

the impact on others of not 
completing specified tasks. 

The Business Environment  

62 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Understand the importance of information to business operations  

7.1 

The role of information in the work of the finance function 

Learners need to understand: 
7.1.1 

the importance of providing useful information 

7.1.2 

the characteristics of useful information:  

-  comparable 

-  consistent  

-  understandable 

- 

- 

relevant and reliable  

timely 

7.1.3 

the use of digital technologies for financial data collection, processing and 
disseminating information  

7.1.4 

the information and documentation received by the finance function:  

-  budgetary 

- 

- 

inventory control and costing information  

information from suppliers and customers  

-  purchase orders  

- 

remittance advice  

-  statements  

-  supplier invoices  

-  credit notes 

7.1.5 

the information and documentation produced by the finance function:  

- 

information to help management decision making 

-  budgetary information 

-  cash information  
- 

taxation information  

- 

information for suppliers and customers  

-  sales invoices 

-  credit notes  
-  statements. 

7.2  The importance of data and information security 

Learners need to know: 

7.2.1  why it is important to ensure the security of data and information 

7.2.2  why it is important to maintain privacy and confidentiality 

7.2.3 

the implications for the organisation if data and information is not secure 

7.2.4  how data and information is retained securely: using passwords, archiving, 

backups and restricting access 

7.2.5 

the importance of cybersecurity. 

The Business Environment  

63 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Delivering this unit 

To deliver this unit effectively, tutors need to help students recognise the impact that the 
global business environment has on all organisations and give them an awareness of the 
environment in which they will work in the future. As a result of the digital age, the world has 
become much smaller and the global economy impacts upon a much wider range of 
businesses than ever, due to the technologies available. As students at this level may not 
have any work experience, they may have limited understanding of how business operates 
and the wider impacts upon business.   

It is important for students to have an awareness of the legal environment and these topics 
can be challenging to deliver in an engaging format. The opportunity to visit law courts and 
participate in mock trials can help. Consideration of financial crime, its impact and the role 
of the finance professional using examples in the media may also help students recognise 
why it is important to understand the legal system. 

The global business environment encompasses economic factors, at a micro- and macro- 
level, and political factors. It is vital that students have an appreciation of the wider and 
global issues that have an impact on businesses and government control. From a finance 
perspective, this is important, as it may influence key decisions concerned with the overall 
success of the business. As an organisation operates within the wider global marketplace, 
the type of business entity created may have an impact upon their ability to operate 
effectively. Students need to know that it is important to establish the business entity, 
ensuring it is fit for purpose now and in the future.  

In the current climate, issues surrounding CSR, ethics and sustainability are increasingly 
important to all businesses. Students could be encouraged to debate key issues based on 
media coverage, highlighting the dangers of ‘fake news’. The environmental impact of 
business is one area where student engagement may be particularly high and opportunities 
such as focusing on a local business to consider the challenges they face. The use of guest 
speakers, current news issues, a site visit or case study materials would facilitate 
engagement, teaching and learning in this area. 

The finance function has now expanded its reach to all areas of a business and the 
processing of data has changed considerably as a result of digital technologies. The value 
that an effective finance function can add to the overall success of an organisation has 
moved towards an analytic and advisory function rather than a process role, and jobs in the 
future will move in this direction. Some aspects of the finance function are now subject to 
outsourcing and, as a result, the number of stakeholders involved has increased and data 
security is increasingly seen as an issue. Students are familiar with technology in their 
everyday lives but need to recognise the impact and issues that affect business on a daily 
basis and the consequences that inappropriate use of technology can have on overall 
success. 

Communication within businesses is as important as ever, given the range of devices and 
media that businesses and individuals can access. The world of digital natives may not 
always be understood by business leaders but there needs to be recognition that some 
skills, which are reducing in popularity and may no longer be used by students, are 
important in the modern business environment. The use of social media platforms and the 
validity of information sources should be recognised and understood as an important 
aspect of communication. Students should also understand how their actions can impact 
upon others and the need for two-way communication to ensure that tasks are understood 

The Business Environment  

64 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fully and completed in line with operational requirements. 

Access to technology is essential for the teaching of this unit, which should include 
accounting software and spreadsheets as a minimum. The opportunity to see other 
technologies being used, including cloud accounting software and integrated systems, may 
also be available on visits to businesses or via guest speakers.  

Links with other units 

This unit has close links with: 

•  Level 2 Introduction to Bookkeeping 
•  Level 2 Principles of Bookkeeping Controls 
•  Level 2 Principles of Costing  
•  Level 3 Business Awareness. 

The Business Environment  

65 

 
 
 
 
 
 
12. Synoptic assessment specification  

Please refer to the latest Qualification Technical Information (QTI) for specific legislation or 
rates that apply to the current assessments. Details can be accessed at 
aat.org.uk/deliver/qualifications/specifications-outlines  

Assessment method 

Marking type 

Duration of assessment 

Computer based 
assessment 

Partially 
computer/partially 
human marked 

2 hours   

The synoptic assessment will ask students to apply knowledge and skills gained across the 
qualification in an integrated way, within a workplace context. Scenarios will change over 
time to ensure the validity of the assessment.  

12.1  Assessment objectives 

Task description 

Weighting 

Assessment 
objective 1 

Demonstrate an understanding of the different business types 
and their functions 

Related learning 
outcomes 

The Business Environment  
LO4 Understand the impact of setting up different types of 
business entity  
LO5 Understand the finance function within an organisation 

Assessment 
objective 2 

Demonstrate an understanding of the finance function, its 
information requirements and sources, and its role in the wider 
organisation 

Related learning 
outcomes 

The Business Environment  
LO5 Understand the finance function within an organisation  
LO6 Produce work in appropriate formats and communicate 
effectively  
LO7 Understand the importance of information to business 
operations  

Assessment 
objective 3 

Demonstrate an understanding of corporate social 
responsibility (CSR), ethics and sustainability 

Related learning 
outcomes 

The Business Environment  
LO3 Understand key principles of corporate social 
responsibility (CSR), ethics and sustainability 

10% 

13% 

14% 

12. Synoptic test specification 

66 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment 
objective 4 

Process bookkeeping transactions and communicate 
information 

Related learning 
outcomes 

Introduction to Bookkeeping  
LO1 Understand how to set up bookkeeping systems  
LO2 Process customer transactions  
LO3 Process supplier transactions  

The Business Environment  
LO6 Produce work in appropriate formats and communicate 
effectively 

Assessment 
objective 5 

Produce and reconcile control accounts, and use journals to 
correct errors 

Related learning 
outcomes 

Principles of Bookkeeping Controls  
LO1 Use control accounts  
LO2 Reconcile a bank statement with the cash book  
LO3 Use the journal 

Assessment 
objective 6 

Demonstrate an understanding of the principles of contract law 

Related learning 
outcomes 

The Business Environment  
LO1 Understand the principles of contract law 

Assessment 
objective 7 

Demonstrate an understanding of bookkeeping systems, 
receipts and payments, and the importance of information and 
data security 

Related learning 
outcomes 

The Business Environment  
LO7 Understand the importance of information to business 
operations  

Introduction to Bookkeeping  
LO1 Understand how to set up bookkeeping systems 
LO2 Process customer transactions  
LO3 Process supplier transactions 

Principles of Bookkeeping Controls 
  LO1 Use control accounts 
LO2 Reconcile a bank statement with the cash book 
LO3 Use the journal 

Assessment 
objective 8 

Demonstrate an understanding of the global business 
environment 

12. Synoptic test specification 

22% 

10% 

7% 

10% 

14% 

67 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related learning 
outcomes 

The Business Environment  
LO2 Understand the external business environment 

12. Synoptic test specification 

68 

 
 
 
 
13. Delivering AAT qualifications 

13.1  Staff requirements 

AAT requires that all staff who deliver AAT qualifications, including tutors, assessors and 
verifiers, are professionally competent to do so. 

If a training provider wishes to claim recognition of prior learning (RPL) for a student, the 
staff must hold the relevant assessor and/or Internal Verifier (IV) qualifications. 

For more information on assessing RPL and the role and qualifications required for 
assessors and/or IVs, please refer to the AAT Code of practice for approved training providers 
and AAT Guidance for training providers documents available through MyAAT at 
aat.org.uk/support/quality-assurance/resources 

13.2  Training provider and assessment venue approval 

Training providers must be approved by AAT to offer these qualifications. To apply to 
become an AAT Approved training provider, email trainingproviders@aat.org.uk with the 
following information: 

full name of organisation 
full postal address, including postcode 
landline telephone number 

• 
• 
• 
•  website address – this must be a live, fully functioning website 
•  other awarding bodies with which the organisation is accredited. 

When AAT has received this information, an account manager will set up a meeting and 
discuss the criteria needed for approval. Only applications that meet AAT’s high standards 
will be approved. 

Existing training providers who wish to offer the qualification(s) should apply through the 
qualification approval section under online centre services, which can be found under the 
MyAAT login. Please note that only the training provider’s main contact can apply for 
qualification approval. 

Some organisations will not wish to become AAT Approved training providers but may be 
interested in administering AAT assessments by becoming an approved assessment 
venue. To apply to become an AAT Approved assessment venue, email 
assessment.venues@aat.org.uk with the following information: 

the full address of the proposed venue 

• 
•  any experience in administering computer based assessments. 

AAT will evaluate whether a venue meets the minimum hardware and software 
requirements, is a suitable environment for delivering assessments and has the staff to run 
assessments successfully. A representative from AAT will conduct a visit before approval is 
granted. 

13. Delivering AAT qualifications  

69 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.3  Quality assurance 

AAT monitors training providers to ensure their continued compliance with the AAT 
approval criteria, the AAT Code of practice for approved training providers and appropriate 
regulatory requirements.  

All training providers have an allocated point of contact and will be subject to a range of 
quality assurance activities (including visits, remote activities, self-assessment and thematic 
reviews) to ensure that quality standards are being met. The frequency of quality assurance 
activities will depend on a number of factors, including the level of risk associated with the 
provider’s experience in delivering AAT qualifications and/or the outcomes of previous 
quality assurance activities. If a centre has been delivering assessments using RPL, AAT 
may also ask for particular information and/or documents to be made available so that 
sampling can be carried out. 

Training providers will receive a report following on from any quality assurance activity from 
AAT, which will identify any actions that are to be addressed. 

AAT may apply an action plan with deadlines and/or a sanction where training providers do 
not meet the requirements set out in the AAT Code of practice for approved training providers, 
which may be accessed via MyAAT at aat.org.uk/assessments/training-providers/quality-
assurance 

Sanctions will be applied at training provider level and will take the following form:  

•  Level 1: Action plan imposed 
•  Level 2: Suspension of the right to claim certification 
•  Level 3: Suspension of the right to register students, schedule assessments and 

claim certification. 

Where AAT considers that there is an irretrievable breakdown in the management and 
quality assurance of the delivery of specified qualifications, AAT will withdraw training 
provider approval. 

13. Delivering AAT qualifications  

70 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. Equality and diversity 

AAT firmly believes in equality of opportunity for all who participate in its qualifications. As 
well as our commitment to the Equality Act 2010, we aim to ensure that: 

•  our qualifications are free from barriers that restrict access and progression 
•  our qualifications are attainable by all who can demonstrate the required standard 

by whatever means 

•  our qualifications, publications and procedures are free from discriminatory 

practices or stereotypes with regards to age, disability, gender reassignment, 
marriage and civil partnerships, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, 
sexual orientation, caring responsibilities, and part-time working. Assessment tasks 
and study opportunities are sufficiently varied and flexible to ensure that no 
particular group of students or would-be students are placed at any disadvantage 

•  all reasonable adjustments are made to cater for the individual requirements of 

students 

•  assessments are valid and reliable to ensure that all students receive impartial 

treatment.  

We do this by: 

•  considering issues of diversity and equality as part of the development process 
•  avoiding the creation of barriers that might disadvantage those students who share 

one or more protected characteristics 

•  consulting with students (or their representatives) 
•  collecting data for monitoring and evaluation 
•  providing additional information at https://www.aat.org.uk/about/what-we-

do/responsible-business-strategy 

14.1  Reasonable adjustments 

A reasonable adjustment is an arrangement that can be put in place by AAT or the 
assessment centre prior to an assessment to help students with a long-term disability, such 
as dyslexia, or who are temporarily impaired, such as a student who has broken their arm, 
to do their best. For example, this could mean applying extra time for dyslexic students or 
allowing the use of a scribe for a student with a broken arm. 

In most cases, it should be possible for the assessment centre to make the decision to 
grant adjustments and notify AAT before scheduling the assessment: for example, granting 
extra time up to and including one-third of the available time as published for that 
assessment. However, if a more significant adjustment is needed, assessment centres may 
need to obtain approval from AAT first. 

Further information about reasonable adjustments and the procedures for notification and 
approval are given in the Guidance on the Application of Reasonable Adjustments and 
Special Consideration in AAT assessments available through MyAAT at 
aat.org.uk/assessments/students/preparing/reasonable-adjustments-special-
consideration 

14. Equality and diversity 

71 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14.2  Special consideration 

Special consideration is a process that takes account of a student’s circumstances, for 
example a temporary illness or injury, or some other event outside of the student’s control, 
at or shortly before the time of assessment, which could have had an effect on the student’s 
ability to take the assessment. The process entails a review of the student’s performance in 
the assessment and, if appropriate, the application of a small mark adjustment to 
compensate, as far as possible, for the difficulties that they might have experienced.  

Further information about special consideration and the procedure that must be followed in 
notifying AAT is given in the Guidance on the Application of Reasonable Adjustments and 
Special Consideration in AAT assessments available through MyAAT at 
aat.org.uk/assessment/adjustments-and-considerations 

14. Equality and diversity 

72 

 
 
 
 
 
 
15. Support for training providers 

15.1  Partner Support team 

The Partner Support team is dedicated to helping training providers with the daily running of 
AAT qualifications. The team also offers one-to-one support for new training providers to 
help them get their AAT qualifications up and running. 

Phone: +44 (0)203 3735 2443 
Email: Partner.support@aat.org.uk 

15.2  Partner Account Manager (PAM) 

Each training provider has their own Partner Account Manager (PAM) assigned to support 
them once they have been approved as an AAT training provider. PAMs help provide links 
to local employers and visit regularly to keep training providers up to date on qualification 
developments, apprenticeships and possible commercial opportunities. 

15.3  Weekly email update from AAT – SummingUp 

Every Friday, SummingUp shares all the latest news from AAT with AAT Approved training 
providers, including: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

technical updates 
qualification developments 
upcoming events 
new e-learning materials 
the latest marketing materials. 

15.4  Events for training providers 

Tutors have the opportunity to attend the following events throughout the year:  

Annual conference 
The annual training provider conference is a chance to get together, network and share 
ideas. The conference typically includes: 

topical workshops 

• 
•  guest speaker sessions 
• 

the opportunity to learn about new developments directly from AAT. 

15. Support for training providers  

73 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Network meetings 
At these events, training providers can raise queries, share best practice and ideas with 
AAT and other training providers. The events: 
cover a wide range of topics 
keep tutors up to date on the latest issues 
provide relevant and cost-effective CPD. 

• 
• 
• 

Technical events (tutor-to-tutor sessions) 
These events are free of charge to training providers and cover a range of our qualifications 
and assessment areas. Experienced and high-performing training providers share their 
experiences, tips and techniques with attendees to help others improve their teaching and 
delivery. 

15.5  Tutor talk forum 

All AAT Approved training providers have access to Tutor talk, where tutors can contribute 
to online conversations about a wide range of AAT issues. Tutors will receive: 

• 
• 

unlimited user logins for all AAT tutors 
email updates on posts they’re interested in. 

15.6  Online support resources 

In order to help tutors deliver AAT qualifications, a range of support materials are offered for 
all AAT qualifications, such as: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

interactive PDFs 
recorded webinars 
videos 
podcasts 
training materials 
quiz questions for all AAT units. 

All support materials can be found on the Lifelong Learning Portal. 

15. Support for training providers  

74 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copyright © 2022 AAT 
All rights reserved. Reproduction is permitted for personal and educational use only. No 
part of this content may be reproduced or transmitted for commercial use without the 
copyright holder’s written consent. 

The Association of Accounting Technicians 
30 Churchill Place 
London 
E14 5RE 
t: +44 (0)20 3735 2468 
f: +44 (0)20 7397 3009 
e: aat@aat.org.uk  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
